Choose correct options : (A) Example of Hexagonal crystal is -
Fill in the blanks : (a) Vitamin ______ is found in Amla.
Match the pairs : (A) Schottky defect
Write True or False : (a) Group 16 elements are called halogens.
Explain mole fraction.
Define Molarity.
What is Tyndall effect ?
Define Peptization.
Explain following: (a) Ligand (b) Coordination number.
Give one example of ionization isomerism in coordination compounds.
Give three differences betweeni ideal and non-ideal solutions.
Find molality of pure water (H2O = 18).
Explain following: (a) Carbylamine reaction.
What happens when : (write equations only) (i) Ethyl amine react with Nitrous acid.
Write sources and deficiency diseases from vitamin A, C and D.
Give three differences between RNA and DNA.
What is meant by Half life ? Prove that half life period of first order reaction does not depend on its initial concentration.
Derive expression for rate constant of First order reaction.
Write oxidation reactions of potassium permanganate. (any four)
Give four differences between Lanthanides and Actinides.
Write short notes on following : (i) Freon (ii) D.D.T.
(i) How chloroforin is stored for safe storage ?
Explain following reactions : (a) Remer- Tinuman reaction
Write four differences between alcohol and phenol.
Explain following reactions : (a) Etards reactions
(i) Explain Canizzaro reaction.
Explain Kolharasch law. Write in brief two applications of this law.
(i) Define corrosion. Write two preventions from corrosion.
Explain preparation of Ammonia from Habers Process under following headings : (i) Diagram
Write formulae of names and structures of five oxy acids of phosphorous.
Write one example of each of following: (i) Antibiotic
(1) Write a short note on food preservative.
Choose and write correct options : Dry ice is - (a) Ionic (c) Metallic (b) Molecular (d) Covalent
Fill in the blanks : (i) Crystal systems are total ____ types. (ii) The rate of reaction is _____of concentration of reactant.
Match the pairs correctly : (i) Glass (a) XeFa (ii) Slag (b) C6H12O6
Answer in one word/sentence : (i) Write Arrhenius equation. ; (ii) Write the name of noble gas which is used in theraphy of cancer.
Calculate the molality of water.
Define the Molarity.
Write two differences between adsorption and absorption.
Define the Brownian movement.
Why ammonia has high boiling point ?
Why sulphur founds solid state in nature ?
Why halogens are coloured ?
Why noble gases are inert ?
Write two differences between double salt and complex compound.
Write IUPAC names of the following coordination compounds : (i) K4[Fe(CN)6] (ii) [Co(NH3)6]Cl3
Write examples of primary and secondary amines.
Why amines are soluble in water ?
Write the definition of Zwitter ion.
Write two differences between DNA and RNA.
Write names of any two antibiotics.
Write names of any two artificial sweeteners.
5.85 gm Nacl dissolve in 250 gm water. Calculate the molality of solution.
Calculate the osmotic pressure of 5% solution of glucose at 25°C. R=0.0821 lit. atm. M.W. of glucose = 180
Explain zero order reaction with example.
Explain pseudo order reaction with example.
Write only chemical equations for following conversions : (i) Ethanol to diethyl ether
Write any three differences between phenol and alcohol.
Write the IUPAC names of the following: (i) CH3CH(CH3)CH2CH2CHO (ii) CH3CH = CHCHO (iii) (CH3)3C CH2COOH
Write chemical equations of the following reactions : (i) Perkin reaction (ii) Cannizaro reaction (iii) Rosenmund reaction
What happens when : (Give only chemical equation) (i) n-Butyl chloride react with alcoholic KOH . (ii) Methyl bromide react
Write chemical equations of the following reactions : (i) Fittig reaction (ii) Hunsdiecker reaction (iii) Sandmeyer's reaction
Explain Kohlraush law with example and write its two applications.
Define the following : (i) Specific conductivity (ii) Equivalent conductivity (iii) Molar conductivity (iv) Cell constant
Write any five differences between Lanthanoids and Actinoids.
Write general electronic configuration of transition elements and explain any four characteristic properties of transition elements.
Choose and write correct options: Formula of Osmotic pressure is - (a) π=nRT/V (b) P=KT/V (c) P=RT/M
Fill in the blanks: (i) Molarity of water is......... (ii) The value of potential of standard hydrogen electrode is
Match the pairs correctly : (i) Mn - (a) Ether (ii) Primary valence - (b) Primary amine (iii) R-O-R - (c)
Answer in one word / sentence: (i) Write the formula of molar conductivity. (ii) Write the unit of rate
Write the definition of mole fraction.
Write the definition of solution.
Write the functions of salt bridge.
Write the first law of Faraday of electrolysis.
Write any two differences between Molecularity of reaction and Order of reaction.
Write any two differences between Rate of reaction and Rate constant.
Write the IUPAC names of following coordination compound - (i) [CO(NH3)6]CI3 (ii) K2[Ni(CN)4]
Define oxidation number of central metal atom with example.
Define coordination number with example.
Write the definition of hydrate isomerism with example.
Write the Etard reaction with chemical equation.
Write two uses of Carboxylic Acid.
Write only chemical equation for following conversion. CH3 - CH2 - CI to CH3 - CH2 - CH2 - NH2
Write the reason, Ethylamine is more basic than Ammonia.
Write any two differences between Fibrous Protein and Globular Protein.
Write any two differences between DNA and RNA.
The vapour pressure of pure benzene at a certain temperature is 0.850 bar. A non-volatile non-electrolyte solid weighing 0.5 gm. when added to 39.0 gm. of benzene (Molar mass 78 gm mol-1) then, vapour pressure of the solution is 0.845 bar. What is the molar mass of the solid substance?
18 gm glucose (C6H12O6) is dissolved in 1 kg of water in a saucepan. At what temperature will water boil at 1.013 bar ? Kb for water is 0.52 K kg mol-1.
Write the unit of rate constant for first order of reaction and second order of reaction.
Write the following with definition : (i) Rate determining step (ii) Order of reaction
Write any three differences between d-block and f-block elements.
Write any three differences between Lanthanoid and Actinoid.
Write only chemical equation of following reactions :(i) Alkyl halide reacts with sodium alkoxide. (ii) Phenol heated with Zn (zinc) powder. (iii) Ethyl alcohol is treated with H2SO4 at 413 K.
Write the structure of following compound: (i) 4-chloro 2, 3 dimethyl pentan 1-ol (ii) 2-ethoxy propane (iii) 2, 6 dimethyl phenol
Write the mechanism of SN1 and SN2 reaction.
Write the following reactions with chemical equation - (i) Sandmeyer's reaction (ii) Fittig reaction
Draw the labelled diagram of Electro-chemical cell and write its structure and chemical reaction.
Write and derive Nernst equation.
How will you prepare the following from acetic acid (CH3COOH)? Write the chemical equations - (i) Acetic
Complete and write the following reaction: