Select and write the correct option from the options given in each question :(a) Unit of electric dipole moment is :
Fill in the blanks : (a) S.I. unit of electric current density is ………
Select the appropriate options from column "B" for each statement of column "A" and match the correct pairs : (a) Value of Electric field inside the conductor
Give answers in one sentence / word for each question : (a) The force acting on charge particle moving inside magnetic field is known as ?
What is the source of Gamma rays and write its use.
What do you mean by displacement Current Write its expression.
What do you mean by stopping potential ?
Write any two applications of photoelectric cell.
Write the names of five spectral series present in line spectrum of Hydrogen atom.
Who discovered the nuclear model of atom ? Write the name of experiment performed by him.
Resistance of a resistance thermometer at 0°C is 6 Ω. At 100°C is 7 Ω and at unknown temperature is 8 Ω. Find out unknown temperature.
A network of 4 ohm, 4 ohm and 3 ohm resistances are connected to a 10 volt battery as shown in figure. Compute the equivalent resistance and current obtained from battery.
Write the comparison between resistance and specific resistance of a conductor.
Draw the labelled diagram of a meter bridge. On what principle it works?
Write the conditions for obtaining total internal reflection. Write its any two applications.
Derive the expression for combined focal length of two thin lenses kept in contact.
State Bio-Savart's law and define unit electric current on the basis of it.
Name the elements of Earth's magnetic field. Establish the relation between them.
What do you mean by magnetic flux ? Write its unit. State Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction.
What is self induction ? Write the unit of self inductance. Derive an expression for energy stored in current carrying coil.
What do you understand by Interference of light ? Write the factors affecting the fringe width of light.
What is meant by Polarisation of light ? State Brewster's law.
A 5 cm long object is placed in front of a concave mirror of radius of curvature 40 cm. The distance of object from mirror is 40 cm. Find the distance and size of the image.
The radius of curvature of a plano-convex lens is 20 cm. Refractive index of glass is 1.5. Find the focal length of the lens.
What is radioactivity ? State the law of radioactive decay.
What do you understand by nuclear fission ? Explain the process with the help of nuclear reaction.
What do you mean by Electric dipole ? Derive an expression for Intensity of electric field at a point in end on position of electric dipole.
Derive the expression for capacitance of a parallel plate capacitor. If a dielectric medium is placed in between the plates. How is its capacitance affected ?
Describe a transformer under the following headings : (1) Kinds of transformer
What is Dynamo ? Draw a labelled diagram and describe the working of an AC dynamo.
What is rectifier ? Name different kinds of rectifier. Describe the pn junction diode as an half wave rectifier.
What is NAND gate ? Draw 'its' symbol. Write truth table and draw its output single in wave form.
Select and write the correct option from the options given in each question : The S.I. unit of electrical capacitance is -
Fill in the blanks : (i) Meter bridge works on the principle of _____.
Give answers in one sentence / word for each question : (a) The mass of a moving particle is m and velocity is v then write the
Select the appropriate options from column "B" for each statement of column "A" and match the correct pairs : (a) Biot-Savart's law
What is meant by electric current ? Write its unit.
What do you mean by drift velocity ?
Write Ohm's Law.
What is an electric cell ?
How is a moving coil galvanometer converted into an ammeter ?
In a moving coil galvanometer the magnetic field is made radial. Why and how ?
The force acting on a charge particle moving inside magnetic field is known as ? Write its expression.
The speed of a charged particle moving in a magnetic field does not change. Why ?
What is a Shunt ?
What is meant by the sensitivity of the galvanometer ?
Write the S.I. unit and dimensional formula of magnetic flux.
Define the coefficient of Self induction.
Write the Lenz's Law
Write differences between Self Induction and Mutual induction (any two)
Red light is generally used in the dark room of photography. Why?
Write two uses of Gamma rays.
What do you understand by diffraction of light ?
What is wave front ?
What is meant by threshold frequency in the photoelectric effect ?
Write any two characteristics of matter waves.
What is meant by the capacitance of a conductor ? Which factors affect the capacitance of a conductor and how ?
What is the force between two small charged spheres having charges of 2×10–7C and 3×10–7C placed 30 cm apart in air ?
Establish the relationship between drift velocity and current density.
How should the resistances 2Ω, 3Ω and 6Ω be connected so that the equivalent resistance is 4Ω ? Also draw a diagram of the
Explain the principle of Wheatstone bridge.
State and explain Kirchoff's laws.
Write the essential conditions for the interference of Light. (any 3)
What is Huygen's wave theory ?
Describe Rutherford's atomic model. Give reason why did it fail ?
State the postulates of Bohr's atomic model.
What is electric potential ? Deduce an expression for the potential at a point due to a point charge.
Obtain an expression for the equivalent capacitance of the capacitors connected in series combination.
Determine the following in an alternating L-C-R circuit- (i) Resultant voltage
What is transformer ? Write its principle and its kinds and prove that
Define N and P type semiconductors. Explain the working of P-N juntion diode with circuit in forward bias and reverse bias.
What is meant by logic gates ? What are OR and AND gates ? Draw their symbols and electrical equivalent circuits.
Select and write the correct option from the options given in each question : Which is used as a voltage regulator? (i)
Fill in the blanks : (i) The maximum frequency wave in electromagnetic waves is _____. (ii) The behavior of Solenoid like
Match the column "A" with column "B" : (i) Magnifying power of Compound Microscope (a) (1-D/f)
Write the answers in one sentence each : (i) How does focal length of lens depends the power of lens ? (ii) Which gate is known
Write any two limitations of Ohm's law.
Write Kirchoff's Voltage law.
What is Lorentz force ?
Define one Ampere.
The polarising angle of a transparent medium is 30º. Calculate the angle of refraction.
The diameter of objective lens of a Telescope is 1 meter. Calculate its resolving power for the light of wavelength 4538 Å.
Write Faraday's second law of electromagnetic induction.
Differentiate between Self Induction and Mutual Induction. (any two)
Show that the electric flux passing through a surface parallel to the electric field is zero.
Describe the electric field and electric potential inside the charged conductor.
The danger signal is always red, why ?
On what factors, does the refractive index of a medium depend ? (any two)
What is stopping potential ?
Write any two characteristics of matter waves.
Draw the truth table of NAND gate and explain it.
Write the differences between N-type and P-type semiconductors. (any two)
In an electrical circuit, resistances R1 and R2 are combined in parallel, then prove that the equivalent resistance is Req = (R1 R2)/(R1+R2)
Establish the relation among electromotive force, potential difference and internal resistance of a cell.
Draw the labelled diagram of a meter bridge. On which principle it works? Write any two precautions.
Describe the principle of Potentiometer with electrical circuit.
Write differences between Simple Microscope and Astronomical Telescope. (any three)
Combine two thin convex lens be mutual contact, then prove that the focal length of combine lens F= (f1f2)/(f1+f2)
A step-down transformer changes the transmitted line voltage from 11000 Volt to 440 Volt. The number of turns in the primary
Calculate the energy stored in a coil of inductance 100 Henry due to flow of current 4 Ampere in it.
What is meant by logic gates? Write Symbol, Boolean formula and Truth table for OR, AND and NOR gates.
What is P-N junction diode ? How does diode used as a forward bias ? Explain.
What is a capacitor ? Establish an expression for finding capacitance of the parallel plate capacitor.
What is an electric dipole ? Establish an expression for finding electric field intensity of an electric dipole for equatorial position.
What is an A.C. generator? Draw a labelled diagram and describe the working of A.C. dynamo.
Describe the following points in an L-C-R circuit : (1) Electrical circuit (2) Phasor diagram (3) Resultant voltage