Fill in the blanks : (i) Which fruits develop without fertilisation are called _____.
Choose the correct options : (i) Kingdom Fungi reproduces asexually by :
Answer in one word / sentence : (i) Name the process of release of ovum from grafian follicle.
Match the columns : (a) IUCD
Give the reason the human testes are situated outside the Abdominal Cavity.
What is medical termination of pregnancy ?
What is somatic hybridisation ? Give any example.
Write economic importance of Spirulina.
What is Biomagnification ?
Write the names of levels of biological organisation of biodiversity.
What is parturition ? Write the name of hormone which induceds parturition.
Define amniocentesis process.
What is Genetically Modified Organism (GMO)? Write its importance.
Write short note on Biopyracy.
What is In-Situ conservation and Ex-situ conservation ?
Write about green house effect.
What is Operon model ? Describe structure of Lac Operon.
Describe the process of mRNA synthesis by DNA.
Differentiate between Homologous and Analogous organs.
Differentiate Lamarckism and Neo Lamarckism.
Write the life cycle of Plasmodium with diagram.
Describe the structure of Antibody with labelled diagram.
What is Sewage ? In which way can Sewage be harmful to us ?
What are the key differences between primary and secondary sewage treatment ?
Describe briefly PCR with diagram.
Describe briefly downstream processing with diagram.
Differentiate between Asexual and Sexual reproduction.
Explain the law of dominance using a monohybrid cross.
Explain the inheritance of haemophillia when diseased father and normal mother will produce children.
Write morphological adaptation in Xerophytes plants. (any 6)
Explain Food Chain.
Fill in the blanks – (i) Plant life ______ more often than animals. (ii) Testes in Humans _______ was located. (iii) Father of
Write the answer in one word / sentence - (i) Write the name of any such creature which is immortal (ii) Which codon is AUG?
Choose the correct answers - Which of the following the continuity of life is maintained ? (a) Adaptation (b) Respiration
Match the columns : (i) Budding (a) Obelia (ii) Vasectomy (b) Hydra
Why is apple called a virtual fruit? Which part of the flower does the fruit?
Explain the role of tapitum in the formation of pallen grain wall.
Write the full form of GIFT.
Write the full form of ZIFT.
Define Amniocentesis.
Define Test-tube baby.
What is mutation ?
Define linkage
Write any two difference between dominate and recessive.
Write any two difference between genotype and phenotype.
Write name of any two Antibiotics
Write full form of AIDS and HIV.
What is Allergies?
What is drug addiction ?
Write about G.M.O.
What is golden rice and write about it.
Write any three difference between Spermatogenesis and Oogenesis.
Draw the labelled diagram of Sperm OR Ovum.
Write the definition of Transcription
Define sickle cell anaemia and write
Write three characteristics of Antigen.
Write three characteristics of Antibiotics
Write three differences between food chain and food web.
Explain the Watson-Crick model of DNA along with labelled diagram.
Write Mendel's law of independent assortment.
Write difference between Plasmid DNA and Chromosomal DNA.
What is PCR ? Write its importance.
Fill in the blanks: (i) Apple is an example of ______ fruit. (ii) Occurrence of more than one embryos in a
Write answer in one word / one sentence: (i) Write name of any one autoimmune disease. (ii) What is the
Choose the correct answers: Who give chromosomal theory of inheritance (a) Robert Hook (b) Greger John
Match the columns : (i) Entamoeba - (a) First antibiotic (ii) Jel electrophoresis - (b) Recessive gene blood
What do you understand by Triple fusion?
What is emasculation?
What is parturition?
What is colostrum?
What is the suggested reasons for population explosion? (any two)
Write 2 names of sexually transmitted diseases.
What is BOD?
What is Ganga action plan?
What is Cloning ?
What is cry gene ?
Write down the causes of AIDS. (any two)
Write down the treatments of cancer.
What is Histone ?
Which nitrogenous bases are found in RNA?
What is Pedigree analysis?
Write down differences between homozygous and heterozygous.
Draw schematic representation of Oogenesis.
What is amniocentesis ? Write its uses.
What is test-cross? Show diagrammatic representation of it.
Draw well labelled diagram of Miller's experiment.
Write measures which is useful for prevention and control of alcohol and drug uses in adolescence.
How microorganism is act like a biofertilizer?
Write down about any 3 main abiotic factors of environment.
What is decomposition?
Write down salient features of genetic code.
Find out the phenotypic ratio of offspring found in F2 generation, when homozygous yellow and round seed of pea plant cross with homozygous green and wrinkled seed plant. With the help of checker board.
Write down several steps of recombinant DNA technology in sequence.
Biopiracy : Write short notes.
Restriction enzyme : Write short notes.
Explain the ecosystem of pond.
Describe the ecological succession on bare rocks.