Fill in the blanks. : (i) The father of Scientific Management is ____
Write True / False : (i) Organization is not the work of Management.
Match the correct columns : (A) Part of direction
Answer the following in one word/one sentence : (i) What is the last stage of selection process?
Choose the correct options : (a) Who controls the Money Market in India ?
What is the main object of Time Study ?
Explain the Unity of direction.
Define business environment.
What is Liberalization ?
What is meant by privatization ?
What is meant by social environment of business ?
Explain the meaning of planning.
Explain the Budget.
What is formal communication ?
What is informal communication ?
Write the qualities of a good leader. (any three)
Discuss non- financial incentives. (any three)
Discuss the principles of direction. (any three)
Write any three elements of communication process.
Explain the importance of consumer protection from the point of view of a business.
What are the responsibilities of a consumer?
Who can file a complaint in a consumer court ?
Explain the rights of a consumer.
Describe the different levels of Management.
Describe any four characteristics of Profession.
Coordination is the essence of Management. Explain.
Explain the nature of management.
Explain the importance of organization.
Distinction between Delegation of authority and Decentralization.
Explain the two advantages and two disadvantages of informal.
Discuss - elements of delegation of authority.
Explain the factors affecting the dividend decision.
What is working capital ? Discuss four important determinants of working capital requirement.
What is Marketing Mix ? What are its main elements ? Explain.
Expenditure on advertising is a social waste. Do you agree ?
Difference between Advertising and Personal selling.
What is Marketing Concept ? How does it help in the effective marketing of goods and services ?
Explain the principles of management enunciated by Taylor. (any five)
State the differences between the principles of management of Fayol and Taylor. (any five)
Contain the characteristics of Planning.
Explain the limitations of Planning.
Explain internal sources of recruitment.
Explain the procedure for selection of employees.
Explain the techniques of controlling.
Discuss the limitations of controlling.
Explain the objectives and functions of the SEBI.
Explain – Primary and Secondary Markets.
Choose the correct option : Management is - (A) Single activity (B) Social activity (C) Group activity (D) Economic activity
Fill in the blanks : (i) The principles of management are _____. (ii) The central point of Taylors study was ______.
Match the columns : (i) Huge cost (A) Followers (ii) Formal organisation (B) Forecasts
Answer the following in one word / sentence : (i) What is determined in Planning first of all ? (ii) By whom the decision made in
Write True / False : (i) Staffing is not a continuous process. (ii) Communication always be in written. (iii) Deviation is always
Give definition of management.
What is meant by innovation ?
Write a two main functions of management.
What are three levels of management ?
Write two characteristic of Business Environment.
What is meant by Privatisation ?
What is meant by External Environment?
What is meant by Business Environment ?
Write a one definition of planning.
Write a two objects of planning.
What is meant by Formal Organisation ?
What is meant by Line Organisation ?
Give a definition of Delegation of Authority.
Give a definition of Decentralisation.
What is meant by Branding ?
What is meant by Labelling ?
What is 'Eco-Mark' scheme ?
Name the various levels of Consumer Forum.
Write any two Rights of Consumer.
Write any two responsibility of consumer.
Describe any three principles of Direction.
Explain the qualities of a good Leader.
Write any three characteristics of controlling.
Describe the modern techniques of controlling
Write any three functions of financial management.
Explain the importance of financial management.
Explain any three characteristics of capital market.
Write any three functions of financial market.
Write any four characteristics of scientific management.
Write Fayol's principles of management. (Any Four)
Write the characteristics of effective planning.
Describe the process of planning.
Explain any four external sources of recruitment.
Write importance of staffing
Describe elements of marketing mix.
Explain any four functions of packaging.