Select and write the correct options : (i) The word micro was firstly used by Economist -
Fill in the blanks : (i) Medium of exchange is a ______ function of money.
Write True or False : (i) Tea and coffee are not complementary goods.
Match the columns : (i) Equilibrium price
Answer in one word/sentence : (i) Write the name of a book written by Keynes in 1936.
How many are types of demand schedule ?
Write the meaning of substitute goods.
When was the National Income Committee established in India ?
Who is calculating the national income in India ?
What is the marginal capacity of capital ?
What is consumption function ?
Write the definition of money according to Prof. Hartley Vidarsh.
Write the definition of money according to Prof. Seligman.
Calculate the Range from the following series : 150, 145, 100, 120, 190, 200
Write the formula of median by the method of individual series.
Write the importance of elasticity of demand.
Write the factors affecting supply.
Explain the perfect elasticity of supply.
Write the factors affecting demand.
Write the class interval of the following classes : 10 – 20, 20 - 30 and 30 - 40
Calculate the quartile deviation from the following data : 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20
Calculate the mid value of 0 – 10 and 10 – 20.
Write the formula of Index number of Paasche.
Write the characteristics of micro economics. (any four)
Explain the scope of macro economics.
Write any four characteristics of perfect competition market.
Write differences between perfect competition market and monopoly market.
Write the qualities of good money.
Write differences between metallic money and paper money.
Write the four features of Balance of Payment.
Write the components of Current Account.
Write the examples of direct and indirect tax.
Write the names of the types of tax.
Write the names of methods of measures of dispersion.
Write any two differences between mean deviation and standard deviation.
Write four difficulties in construction of index number.
Calculate the price index number by simple aggregate method using the following data :
Describe the assumptions of law of demand.
Describe the exceptions of law of demand.
Write the importance of the national income counting.
Calculate the national income by income method with the help of following data :
Explain circular flow of income by two sector model.
Explain circular flow of income by three sector of model.
Describe the types of budget.
Explain the importance of budget.
Calculate mean deviation by mean with the help of following data. 54, 57, 52, 49, 42, 56, 47.
Calculate mean deviation by median with the help of following data. 54, 57, 52, 49, 42, 56, 47
Select and write the correct alternative : When total utility are fixed then marginal utility are – (a) Zero (b) Positive (c) Negative
Fill in the blanks : (i) Average revenue = ____/ Quantity (ii) The government imposed upper limit on the price of a goods or
Write True or False : (i) Opportunity cost is also called the economic cost. (ii) Goods and Service Tax (GST) is concept of One
Match the columns : (i) Substitutes goods (a) Ultimate consumers (ii) Complements goods (b) Tea and Coffee
Answer in one sentence : (i) When was the World Bank established ? (ii) What is the relationship between demand and price of a
What is the central problem of an economy ?
Write any two differences between a centrally planned economy and market economy.
A market where there are only two consumers and suppose their demands for the goods are given as follows :
What is the inferior goods ? Give examples.
What is the price elasticity of supply ?
What is the supply curve of a firm in the long run ?
Explain the market equilibrium price,
What is the price floor ? Give example.
What is the average income ? Write the formula.
What is the meaning of oligopoly ?
What is the meaning of macro economy analysis ?
Why and when did the world great depression happen?
What is the gross national product of income?
Write the meaning of personal disposable income.
What is the barter system
What are the main functions of money ?
Are fiscal deficits inflationary?
What is 'Budget' ?
What is the open economy?
Name the financial institutions of international standard.
Write distinguish between micro economics and macro economics.
What is the subject matter of economics ?
What are the characteristics of a perfectly competitive market ?
Write the effecting factors of commodity of supply.
What is the aggregate demand ? Write main components.
Explain 'Paradox of Thrift'.
What are the objectives of government budget ? Write.
Why public goods must be provided by the government? Explain.
What is the Demand curve and the law of demand ? Write.
Write the main characteristics of Indifference curves.
Briefly write the concepts of the cost function.
Why are the cost curves 'U' shaped ?
Write the main methods to calculate the National Income.
What are the main factors of production and what are called the remunerations to each of them ?
What is meant by demand and supply of money ? Write.
Explain the main functions of Reserve Bank.