Who are the people far from us?
What is the over all mood of the poem Teach Me to Listen, Lord?
In what order does the poet wish to listen to the voices?
Whom does the poet wish to trust?
What was Mini doing in the balcony?
What disability did Mini have?
Describe Duck s farewell.
Explain, True equality is the only true morality or true wisdom.
What happens if we prejudge people and future events?
How does school life prepare a child to face the outside world?
Why does the poet regard earth a friend?
What makes the poet think that man is God s greatest creation?
What are comfort zones?
Why should we leave our comfort zones and how ?
What was the topic of discussion at Dabney s house?
What two remarkable things did the narrator mention ?
What kind of life does the poet find in the woods ?
What is the difference between a selfish and a helpless man?
What did Birju see when he peeped into the hut?
What does the Brain consist of ?
How does the brain react in emergency situations?
What is blood-brain barrier? How does it work?.
Describe the structure of the brain.
How does the secret spirit operate in human body?
How did the author react to his wife s suggestion of buying a gun ?
What was Ghasi s complaint to the Panchayat?
Why did Mohan name his ass Truck Saab ?
Why does the forest envy the river?
How does the river praise the forest?
Describe the modern day achievement of Indians.
Make a list of civic duties as suggested by Dr. Kalam.
What place does agriculture occupy in vision 2020 ?
Do you think that the author was blind by birth? Justify your answer from the hints given in the story.
What are the two meanings of the word ‘Cricket’?
How is the word “Spin used differently in the poem ? How is the word “Spin used differently in the poem ?
How according to the author, are blind people better in seeing than the sighted ?
Justify the title, The Fun They Had .
Describe the incident at the intellectual s house that made Pearl S. Buck appreciate the place of religion in Indian Life?
How can you tell that the author had always loved India?
Why did Kanchhedi say he beat up Ghasi?
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : There was an artist who had travelled far and wide and had an extensive reputation.
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : The behaviour of plastics when heated provides the basis for the distinction between
Imagine yourself to be the Export Manager of Deepali Overseas Ltd., Mumbai.
Design an attractive and instructive poster on behalf of the Delhi Police to educate and
Write a newspaper report to be published in a newspaper giving the detailed account
Using the following inputs produce a write up on the Importance of English” in about 150-200 words.
Write a letter to the collector of your district about the lack of facilities and malfunctioning of the government hospital of your area.
Write an application to the principal of Government Higher Secondary School, Seoni to issue you books from the book-bank.
Write a letter to your friend advising him to study English, Maths. general knowledge and reasoning for competitive examination.
You are Manish Shukla. Write a letter to your friend Vivek to congratulate him on his brilliant success in H.S.S. Examination 2019.
Write an article on Importance of Co-curricular activities in shaping the personality of students.
Pollution problem. Write an essay (about 250 words)
Importance of Games and Sports. Write an essay (about 250 words)
Corruption in everyday life. Write an essay (about 250 words)
Science in the service of man. Write an essay (about 250 words)
If I were the Prime Minister. Write an essay (about 250 words)
Fill in the blanks with the help of the correct alternatives given in the brackets : (1) Iron is _____useful metal.
Do as directed : (any five) (i) in / this / book / are/ there / pages/ how / many /?
Read the following extracts from poem and answer the questions given below : This life is sweetest; in this wood
Read the following extracts from poem and answer the questions given below : But what am I ?
Answer any two of the following questions : (i) Who are the people far from us?
Answer any seven of the following questions : (i) What was Mini doing in the balcony ?
Answer any one out of two : What are natural laws ? How do they affect our lives?
Justify the title The fun they had.
Answer any four of the following questions : (i) What makes a team a whole ?
Summarize the poem “We are the Future in about 80 words.
Summarize the poem Psalm of Life in about 80 words.
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : Jamshedji Tata wanted to make textiles in Nagpur in the 1800s with the cotton grown there. Nagpur had no textile industry then,
Read the passage and answer the questions given below it : Life is not a bed of roses, but a bed of thorns, It is full of dangers and difficulties. In the race of life, we should not be afraid of the
Design an attractive poster and warn the people about future problems Save Tree Save Life .
You are Adarsh residing at 101, Shastri Nagar, Vidisha. Your father has been transferred to another city. You want to sell certain household goods. Design a suitable advertisement to be published in a local newspaper.
Write a report to be published in a newspaper giving the detailed account of the inauguration ceremony of the annual function held in your school, using the following details.
You are Sarthak Tomar. You have organized a campaign on “Say No to Polythene Bags in your locality. Write a report in about 125 words for publication in a magazine using following details :
Write an application to your Principal requesting him to allow you to opt for Humanities subjects instead of Science subjects. You arc Monika, a student of Class XI in Govt. Excellence H.S. School, Ambah, Dist. Morena, M.P.
Write a letter to the collector of your district about the lack of facilities and malfunctioning of the government hospital of your area.
Write a letter to your father requesting him to send you Rs. 5000 to buy some books, uniform and deposit hostel fec. You are Chetan Chouhan, from Gwalior.
Your friend, Akash is worried about, the coming board examinations. Write a letter to him giving some advice and moral support for success in the examination.
Using the following inputs. produce a small write-up in about 150 words on Illegal immigration - A Real Threat :
Write an essay on Science in today s life topics in about 250 words:
Write an essay on Any burning problems of India topics in about 250 words:
Write an essay on Importance of games and sports in life topics in about 250 words:
Write an essay on Role of media in Democracy topics in about 250 words:
Write an essay on Any festival you like the most topics in about 250 words:
Fill in the blanks with the correct alternatives given in the bracket : (1) How ________ milk do you buy daily ? (any, much, many)
Do as directed : (any five) (i) her/pen/put/ink/some/she/in (Rearrange the words to make meaningful sentence)
Read the following extracts from poem and answer the questions given below it : Teach me to listen, Lord To those far from me
Read the following extracts from poem and answer the questions given below it : Can I admire the statue great, When living man starve at its feet ?
Write any two of the following questions : (1) Who are the people far from us? (2) What kind of life does the poet find in the woods ?
Answer any seven of the following questions : (1) What was Mini doing in the balcony ? (2) What was the topic of discussion at Dabney s ?
Answer What are natural laws ? How do they affect our lives?
Answer Describe the duck s farewell.
Answer (1) Which is the world s highest waterfall and where is it? (2) Why must we take risk ?
Nature s bounty is boundless. Explain it.
Write down the central idea of the poem We are the Future in about 80 words.
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : A book is not something you find in every gali or mohalla these days. Books which were once staple die for youngsters in their formative
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : In the modern world women have come to perform varied roles. They are no longer confined to the four walls of their homes.
You are Aishwarya Patel, student of Class XII A of Govt. H. S. School, Dhar. You have found a tiffin-box in the school playground. Prepare a notice for school notice-board. Put the notice in a box,
With the help of the clues given, design a poster in a suitable box entitled Don t be Cruel to Animals . love them, feed them, Shelter them, Save animals, Save the Earth .
Last Monday you went to the hospital to see a friend who was admitted there. Using the following input, produce a small write-up on A visit to a hospital: (1) Registration counter
An election was held and you went to cast your vote. Using the following input describe what you saw at the booth, as an observer : (1) Queue of voters
Write an application to the principal of Government Higher Secondary School Bagh, Dhar to issue you School Leaving Certificate as you have to submit it in the office of Collector for your selection in revenue department.
You are Aditi Pal, residing at 53 Vikas Nagar, Dewas. Write a letter to the Post Master, complaining against the Postman of your arca.
You are Priya Jain of 24, Nutan Nagar, Khargone. Write a letter to your friend Preeti, inviting her to attend the marriage ceremony of your elder brother.
You are Mridul Kumar. Write a letter to your friend Pushkar, inviting him to spend his summer vacation with you in your town.
Using the following input produce a small write-up on potable water, scarcity of water A Burning Problem . (1) 97 percent sea water
Write an essay on any Wonders of Science topics in about 250 words:
Write an essay on any The Population Problem topics in about 250 words:
Write an essay on any Importance of Games and Sports topics in about 250 words:
Write an essay on any India of My Dreams topics in about 250 words:
Write an essay on any Importance of Newspaper. topics in about 250 words:
Fill in the blanks with the help of the correct alternatives given in the bracket : (i) __________Ramayan is a sacred book.
Read the following extracts from poem and answer the questions given below it: Teach inc to listen, Lord To those nearest mc
Read the following extracts from poem and answer the questions given below it: (B) Wise were the human hands that set her there
Answer any two of the following questions : (i) What makes the poet think that man is God s greatest creation ? (ii) What kind of life docs the poet find in the woods ?
Answer any two of the following questions :(i) What is the meaning of the word spastic? (ii) What is the best way to disarm hostility ?
Answer Who do you think the story is about, Mini or the duck? Why?
Answer Describe the modern day achievements of Indians
Answer any four of the following questions : (i) How is the Angel Falls compared to Niagara Falls ? (ii) What are the distilled books like ?
Write down the central idea of the poem Beauty in about 80 words.
Describe the importance of Gita in about 80 words
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below it :Nationalism. of course is a curious phenomenon: which at a certain stage in a country s history gives life. growth. strength and unity, but at the same time.
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below it :At the end of the Second World War, Japan was defeated, her economy was in ruins. Until 1952, she was occupied by Allied troops, mostly American for the first three years, the Americans aimed at making sure that Japan could never start a war
Your father has been transferred to another city. You want to sell certain household goods. Design an attractive and suitable advertisement to be published in local newspaper.
You are a student of Class XII of Govt. G. H. S. School. Morena. Your school is going to celebrate “Say No To Drugs Day.” Prepare a poster on the same. Poster must be in proper formation having good message for the local public also.
You are Kamal. As a responsible citizen you have organized a campaign on Say No to Polythene Bags in your locality. Write a report in not more than 125 words for publication in a magazine using the following details (i) campaign in our locality.
With the help of the words given below, produce a write up on the Corruption: A Fast Growing Malady :(i) a little bit always existed
You are Avinash Sinha residing at 4/36 Mahal Colony Shivpuri. Write a letter to the collector of your district about the lack of facilities and mal-functioning of the Govt. Hospital of your area.
Write a letter to the Superintendent of Police of your district for a ban on the free use of loudspeakers during examination.
Write a letter to your father requesting him to send you Rs. 1000/- for school and hostel fee, school uniform and books.
You are Bharat Singh residing at 192. Dwaraka Colony, Bhind. Write a letter to your friend Harish congratulating him on his brilliant success in the Higher Secondary Certificate Examination.
Write an article on ‘Man. Computer and Mobile’ for your school magazine. You are Akanksha a student of BGSI Public School, Gwalior. You can take the help of following inputs (1) so many technical devices
Write an essay on any one of the following topics in about 250 words :(a) Science : A Blessing or A Curse (h) The Problem of Unemployment
Fill in the blanks with the help of the correct alternatives given in the bracket : (i) My friend lives ______ New Delhi. (in / at / into)
Do as directed : (any five)(i) a ( apple / an / day / the / keeps / away / doctor.
Read the following extract and answer the questions given below : The wonderful air is over me. And the wonderful wind is shaking the tree.
And talks to itself on the tops of hills. (a) The opposite of the word bottom is :
Read the following extract and answer the questions given below : Some people say that you re a dear.Yet dear is far from cheap. A jumper is a thing you wear.
Answer any two of the following questions :(a) Who are the people far from us ? (b) What is the attire of the earth ?
Answer any seven of the following questions : (a) What disability did she (Mini) have ? (b) What happens if we prejudice people and future events ?
Answer Describe the duck s farewell.
Answer Do you think that the author was blind by birth? Justify your answer from the hints given in the story.
Answer any four of the following questions : (a) Which is the world s highest waterfall and where is it ? (b) How does the author compare the crafty. Simple and wise men
In what categories does the author divide the books ?
Summarize the poem ‘Words’ in about 80 words.
Reading Read the following passage carefully and answer the Questions given below it. Old people say that childhood is the best part of life. They look back at their childhood and remember all its happy days, the jolly games, the fun they had at school
Read the passage and answer the Questions given below it: Life is not a bed of roses, but a bed of thorns. It is full of dangers and difficulties. In the race of life, we should not be afraid of the risk which is but natural. Success in any work in life goes to those persons who welcome risk.
Design an advertisement on behalf of the Ministry of Environment M.P. for publication in a newspaper urging the people to get Pollution under Control Certificate for their vehicles. Mention the date, venue, place and time of the programme. Make the people aware about the harmful effects of hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide.
Design an attractive and instructive poster of the Delhi Police to educate and warn the people against-unclaimed articles like dolls, tiffin boxes, suitcases, bags, transistors, mobiles lying in public places/trains/buses.
You are Rohan residing at 12 Roop Rang Colony Damoh M.P. you have witnessed an accident. Write a report for a newspaper in 100 words about the accident using the following details : (1) Where, when and how did the accident happen?
Watch the visual input very carefully and write an article in about 100 words on Water Pollution .
Write a letter to M/s Deepali Stationary Mart, New market, Ratlam asking them to send their rates and terms of supply of stationary items.
You are Sheetal Varma, have passed XII class. Write an application to your Principal S.N.P.W.H.S. School Dewas, M.P., requesting her/him to issue a school leaving certificate (SLC) as you have to join for higher studies in other city.
Write a letter to your friend Reema, inviting her to attend the marriage ceremony of your sister.
Your friend is worried about the coming examinations. Write a letter to him giving moral support for success in the examination.
Write an article on Importance of Trees / Forests. With the help of following input. (1) Useful Human lives.
Write an essay on any one of the following topics. (1) A current problem of India.
Fill in the blanks by selecting the most suitable and appropriate option. (1) My brother is --------- engineer. (the /an/a)
Do as directed (any five). (1) Raju / write / can/ hand / with / either.
Read the following extract and answer the Questions given below- Teach me to listen, Lord To those far from me
Read the following extract and answer the Questions given below Some words have different meanings and yet they re spelt the same
Answer any two of the following questions. (1) Whom does the poet wish to trust?
Answer any seven of the following questions in about 30 words each. (1) What place does agriculture occupy in vision 2020?
Answer any one out of two. (1) What is the main difference between playmates and schoolmates? Explain in your own words in 50 to 60 words.
What is a blood - brain barrier? How does it work?
Answer any four of the following questions. (a) What is the simplest form of meditation? (b) What is the saying about the values?
Write the central idea of the poem We are the Future.
Write the central idea of the poem Risks .
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below it: The Jataka Stories recount the many previous births of the Buddha in human and animal lives. In all there are 547 stories, originally told by the Buddha to his disciples.
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below: Laughter yoga makes a clear distinction between happiness and joy. Happiness is a conditional response of the mind which is totally dependent on the fulfillment of certain desires of mind by its very nature,
You are Ankit Gautam. You have found a school bag in the playground of your school. Prepare a lost and found notice.
Prepare a poster on say no to drugs.
With the help of the points given below produce a write-up on the NSS Camp: (i) NSS Camp in Rampur Village, (ii) 100 Volunteers,
With the help of the words given produce a write-upon Value of Games : (1) Necessary of life, (2) Removes monotony, (3) Make our body healthy,
Write a letter to the Post Master of your area complaining against the postman of your area.
Write an application to your principal requesting him to issue a character certificate.
Write a letter to your friend congratulating him on his grand success.
Write a letter to your friend advising him to celebrate Diwali without crackers.
With the given input produce a write-up on Grow more Trees : (1) Importance of trees (2) Usefulness of trees (3) To survive in life trees are necessary
Write an essay on any one of the following topics : (1) Importance of newspaper (2) Computers in our daily life
Objective Questions : (i) I have seen ................... lot of places. (a) a (b) an (c) the (d) no article.
Read the following extract and answer the questions given below: (A) Teach me to listen lord To those far from me The whisper of the hopeless
Answer any two of the following questions: (a) Why does the poet regard earth a friend ? (b) Who are the people far from us?
Answer the following questions (any seven): (a) What disability did Mini have? (b) What is the best way to disarm hostility ?
What are natural laws ? How do they affect our lives?
Answer any four of the following questions: (a) What are distilled books like? (b) What makes a team whole ?
Write the central idea of poem Risks.
Summarize the poem ‘A Psalm of Life .
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below it: The Pench National Park (Mogliland) is one of famous National park in the world. It is in between Nagpur and Jabalpur city.
Read the passage and answer the questions given below it: Pollution is the fouling of the environment, land, water and air by waste, smoke, chemicals and other harmful substances.
With the help of the description given below prepare an advertisement in a suitable box entitled Required in about 20 words: I.T. Professional, Full Time Basis, C++, 2-3 yrs experience, age not more than 30 yrs, Salary in 5 figures p.m. Contact -0001-234560001, Director, Kash & Co. Bhopal (M.P.)
With the help of the clues given, design a poster in a suitable box entitled Don t Be Cruel to Animals : Love them, feed them, shelter them Save animals, Save the Earth .
Using the following input, produce a write-up on The Importance of English in about 150-200 words: International Language, Invention of Internet, Language of Trade, Commerce higher technical and scientific studies communication round the globe, means for earning livelihood.
The picture below shows the various forms of child labour. Write in about 150 to 200 words describing the picture and give at least two suggestions how to educate these children continuously.
Write an application to the Principal of Government Higher Secondary School, Khargone to issue you School Leaving Certificate as you have to submit it in the office of S. P. for your selection in Police Department.
Write a letter to the S. D. M. of your area (Tehsil) requesting him to put a ban on loudspeakers during your annual examination. (b) Informal letter:
Write a letter to your friend describing a recent exciting cricket match in which your team won.
Write a letter to your brother telling him how you spent your last summer vacation.
Write an article on Man, Computer and Mobile for your school magazine. You are Rakesh Shukla, a student of Government Higher Secondary School, Barwani. (about 150-200 words).
Write an essay on Prime Ministers of India, topics in about 200-250 words:
Write an essay on Quality Education at Primary Level topics in about 200-250 words:
Write an essay on Pollution and Our Existence topics in about 200-250 words:
Write an essay on Our India, Clean India. topics in about 200-250 words:
Write an essay on Man s Journey of Life and Science topics in about 200-250 words:
Objective questions. Choose correct alternative, fill in the blanks. (i) Prashu is............M. A, in English.
Do as directed (any five): (i) We did it ? [Change into negative]
Read the following extract from a poem and answer the question given below it. To those nearest to me
Read the following extract from a poem and answer the question given below it. Our body is an epitome of some vast
What are the two meanings of the word cricket ?
Who are the people far from us?
What is the attire of the earth ?
Write any one name of the poet from your text book. This life is sweetest is from the very first line of the poem.....
Answer any seven of the following questions in about 30 words each: (a) What is the difference between playmates and schoolmates ?
Answer any one of the following questions (50-75 words) : (a) Justify the title, The Fun They Had .
Answer the questions any four in about 30 words each: (i) Which is the best place considered for meditation ?
Answer the question in about 60–80 words : Why does the author say your heart is as smart as the US Army ?
Answer the question in about 60–80 words : How can one reach Chitrakoot ? Mention all the three ways.
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : Once upon a time, there lived a queen in the city of
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : Akbar was the son of humble parents. His father was a
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : Fat comes in two types; Omega-3 which is found in marine
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : Nobody knows my name is the title of one of James
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : To write well you have to be able to write clearly and
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : The great sage once had a group of disciples. They were all
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : Oscar Wilde once remarked, Most people are other people.
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : The task which Gandhiji had taken in hand was not only the
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : In November 1918, Dr. Ambedkar joined Sydenham
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : Although speech is the most advanced form of
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : An earthquake comes like a thief in the night, without
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : It may be asked, “In what respect do speeches differ from
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : In the world have we made health an end in itself? We
Read the passage carefully and answer the questions given below it : Because our eyes are so valuable to us both for work and
Read the following passages and answer the questions given below : Destruction of forests has a major impact on the
Read the following passages and answer the questions given below : Women s education in India is one of the foremost concerns
Read the following passages and answer the questions given below : Life is not a bed of roses, but a bed of thorns. It is full of
Read the following passages and answer the questions given below : Conversation is indeed the most easily teachable of all arts.
Read the following passages and answer the questions given below : In the world have we made health an end in itself? We have
Read the following passages and answer the questions given below : Although speech is the most advanced form of
Read the following passages and answer the questions given below : Fat comes in two types; Omega-3 which is found in marine
You are S. Rajan of Barwani. You want to let your flat. Write out an advertisement to be published in the classified column of a newspaper
You are Ankit Gupta. You have found a school bag in your school compound. Prepare a Lost and Found notice.
You are Alok Khare, the secretary of the cultural activities of your school. Draft a notice giving information about the selection
Prepare a poster on Say no to Drugs .
Design an attractive and instructive poster of the Delhi Police to educate and warn the people against-unclaimed articles like
Your father has been transferred to another city. You want to sell certain household goods. Design a suitable advertisement to be
You are Aishwarya Patel, student of class XII of Govt.HSS, Dewas. You have found a bag in the school playground. Prepare a
You have lost your bag carrying your documents in a bus. Draft an advertisement to get it back in not more than 50 words.
With the help of the clues given, design a poster in a suitable box entitled Don t be Cruel to Animals . Love them, feed them,
Design an attractive poster with catchy slogans on Blood Donation Camp .
You are Rishi Sahni. Your father has been transferred to Delhi. You want to sell certain household goods. Draft an
With the help of the following words given below produce a write up on NSS Camp 1. NSS Camp in Rampur village
Produce a write up on Value of Games - 1. Necessary for life 2.Removes monotony 3. Make our body healthy
You have witnessed an accident. Write a report for a newspaper in 100 words about the accident using the following details,
You are Kunal, as a responsible citizen you have organized a campaign on Say No to Polythene Bags in your locality. Write a
Last Monday you went to the hospital to see your friend who was admitted there. Using the following input produce a small
Write a letter to M/s Deepali stationery mart, New market, Ratlam asking them to send their rates and terms of supply of stationery items
Write a letter to the collector of your district about the lack of facilities and malfunctioning of the government hospital of your area.
Write a letter to the collector of your district about the nuisance of loudspeakers in your area requesting him to impose a ban on
Write an application to the principal of your school requesting him to issue a School Leaving Certificate/Transfer Certificate.
Write an application to the Principal requesting him to issue you a character certificate as you have to submit it in the office of
You are Aditya Pandey, residing at 53, Vikas Nagar, Ujjain. Write a letter to the Postmaster complaining against the Postman of your area.
Write a letter to your brother telling him how you want to spend your summer vacation this year.
You are Sachin Bhargava, residing at 102, Dwaraka Colony, Mhow. Write a letter to your friend Jay congratulating him on his
Write a letter to your friend advising him to study English, Maths, General Knowledge and reasoning for attaining success in
Write a letter to your father requesting him to send you 9000/- to purchase books and pay school and hostel fees.
Write a letter to your friend inviting him to your elder brother s/sister s marriage.
Write a letter to your father requesting him to permit you to attend your school s tour to Pachmarhi.
You are Priyanshi , the Head Girl of your school. Draft a notice to inform the students about a picnic that your school is going to
Write a notice in not more than 50 words to inform the students about Fancy Dress Competition going to be held in your school.
Write an article on Man, Computer and Mobile for your school magazine using the following inputs. (i) So many technical
Science : A Blessing or A Curse : (Write an essay in about 250 words)
The Problem of Unemployment : (Write an essay in about 250 words)
Value of Games and Sports : (Write an essay in about 250 words)
Pollution Problem: A Great Challenge : (Write an essay in about 250 words)
Festivals of India : (Write an essay in about 250 words)
COVID-19: its impact on our life : (Write an essay in about 250 words)
Fill in the blanks. 1. I have seen …….... places of historical importance in this city. (a/an/the/no article)
Do as directed : 1. His brothers sold all the gold.(Make a question with Wh-word ) 2. I know that lad not much. (Change the voice)
Read the following extract and answer the questions that follow : When I passed the town hall there was a crowd in front of the
Read the following extract and answer the questions that follow : Why do you do this? I ask Saheb whom I encounter every
Read the following extract and answer the questions that follow : It had happened when I was ten or eleven years old. I had
Read the following extract and answer the questions that follow : The world had, of course, never been very kind to him, so it
Read the following extract and answer the questions that follow : Presently, the landlords learned that Germany had developed
Read the following extract and answer the questions that follow : Since its invention a little over 130 years ago, the interview
Extracts from poems (Flamingo) : She was as old as she, looked but soon
Extracts from poems (Flamingo) : I looked again at her, wan, pale , as a late winter s moon and felt that old
Extracts from poems (Flamingo) : Driving from my parent s , home to Cochin last Friday
Extracts from poems (Flamingo) : Now we will count to twelve , and we will all keep still.
Extracts from poems (Flamingo) : And such too is the grandeur of the dooms , We have imagined for the mighty dead;
Extracts from poems (Flamingo) : Spite of despondence, of the inhuman dearth , Of noble natures, of the gloomy days,
Extracts from poems (Flamingo) : The little old house was out with a little new shed , In front at the edge of the road where the
Extracts from poems (Flamingo) : It is in the news that all these pitiful kin , Are to be bought out and mercifully gathered in
Extracts from Vistas (SUPPL. READER) : After a few days, the maharaja s son s third birthday was celebrated. Till that time the
Extracts from Vistas (SUPPL. READER) : EARLY this year, I found myself aboard a Russian research vessel — the Akademik
Extracts from Vistas (SUPPL. READER) : To make the sound effect of how the skunk knocked the door, Jack knocked on the
Extracts from Vistas (SUPPL. READER) : The injured man was an American. As his cap fell off, they saw his wet, yellow -
What was Franz expected to be prepared with for school that day?
What did Franz notice that was unusual about the school that day?
What had been put up on the bulletin board?
What changes did the order from Berlin cause in school that day?
How did Franz s feelings about Mr. Hamel and school change?
What was the fear in little Franz s mind when he started for school in the morning?
Why did Franz not want to go to school that day?
What did Franz see while he was going to school?
The teacher did not scold Franz for his coming late to school. Why?
How did M. Hamel dress for school on his last day to school?
Why did Hauser and the other villagers come to attend The Last Lesson?
What information did M. Hamel give to the children in his class?
What is Saheb looking for in the garbage dumps? Where is he and where has he come from?
What explanations does the author offer for the children not wearing footwear?
Is Saheb happy working at the tea-stall? Explain.
What makes the city of Firozabad famous?
Mention the hazards of working in the glass bangles industry.
How is Mukesh s attitude to his situation different from that of his family?
What could be some of the reasons for the Migration of people from villages to cities?
Why should child labour be eliminated and how?
How can Mukesh realise his dream?
Why was Douglas determined to get over his fear of water?
How did the instructor build a swimmer out of Douglas?
How did Douglas overcome his fear of water?
How did the experience of throwing by the bully affect him?
What is the misadventure that William Douglas speaks about?
What did Douglas experience when he was thrown into the pool again?
How did this experience affect him?
How did Douglas make sure that he conquered the old terror?
All we have to fear is fear itself. Explain the statement in your own words.
From where did the peddler get the idea of the world being a rat trap?
Why was he amused by this idea?
Did the peddler expect the kind of hospitality that he received from the crofter?
Why was the crofter so talkative and friendly with the peddler?
Why did he show the thirty kroner to the peddler?
Did the peddler respect the confidence reposed in him by the crofter?
What made the peddler think that he had indeed fallen into the rattrap?
Why did the ironmaster speak kindly to the peddler and invite him home?
Why did the peddler decline the invitation?
What made the peddler accept willmansson s invitation?
What doubts did Edla have about the peddler?
When did the ironmaster realise his mistake?
What did the peddler say in his defence when it was clear that he was not the person the ironmaster had thought he was?
Why did Edla still entertain the peddler even after she knew the truth about him?
Why was Edla happy to see the gift left by the peddler?
What made the peddler finally change his ways?
How does the metaphor of the rattrap serve to highlight the human predicament?
Why is Rajkumar Shukla described as being resolute?
Why do you think the servants thought Gandhi to be another peasant?
Why did Gandhi agree to a settlement of 25% refund to the farmers?
How did the episode change the plight of the peasants?
How was Gandhi able to influence lawyers?
Why did Gandhi consider the Champaran episode to be a turning point in his life?
What was the attitude of the average Indian in smaller localities towards advocates of home rule ?
What was Gandhi s politics intertwined with?
Why did Gandhi chide the lawyers of Muzaffarpur?
Freedom from fear is more important than legal justice for the poor. How is this statement relevant in today s scenario?
Why do most celebrity writers despise being interviewed?
What do you understand by the expression thumbprints on his windpipe?
How does Eco find the time to write so much?
What was distinctive about Eco s academic writing style?
What is the reason for the huge success of the novel, The name of the rose ?
How have interviews become a common place of journalism?
Why did Rudyard Kipling refuse to be interviewed?
What is the kind of pain and ache that the poet feels?
Why are the young trees described as sprinting ?
Why has the mother been compared to the late winter s moon ?
What do the parting words of the poet and her smile signify?
What worried the poet when she looked at her mother?
What were the poet s feelings at the airport? How did she hide them?
What does the poet want for the children of the slums? How can their lives be made to change?
How is the atmosphere inside an elementary school classroom in a slum different from the one outside it?
Why does the poet ask us to keep still?
What symbol from Nature does the poet invoke to say that there can be life under apparent stillness?
What pleasure does a beautiful thing give us?
Why is grandeur associated with the Mighty dead ?
What image does the poet use to describe the beautiful bounty of the earth?
What makes human beings love life in spite of trouble and suffering?
Where was the stand situated and how was it made?
What will be a great relief to the poet? How can the problems of the rural people be solved?
Who is Tiger King? Why does he get that name?
What did the royal infant grow up to be?
What is the author s indirect comment on subjecting innocent animals to the willfulness of human beings?
Which matter about the Tiger King is of extraordinary interest?
Why did the Maharaja ban tiger hunting in the state?
Why did the Maharaja order the Deewan to double the land tax?
How did the hundredth tiger take its revenge upon the Tiger King?
What was the purpose of the visit to Antarctica?
What unique opportunities does the Antarctic environment provide to scientists?
What are phytoplanktons?
How do geological phenomena help us to know about the history of humankind?
The world s geological history is trapped in Antarctica . How is the study of this region useful to us?
What did Dr Sadao and his wife do with the man?
Why was Dr Sadao kept in Japan and not sent abroad with the troops?
Where did Dr. Sadao and Hana meet?
In what condition did Dr Sadao and Hana find the white man at the seashore?
How did Dr Sadao help Tom, the white man to escape?
Describe the difficulties faced by Dr sadao and his wife, Hana, when they tried to help the enemy soldier?
What was the basic plot of each story told by Jack?
What was Roger Skunk s problem? Why did his mother not like her son smelling like roses?
Why did Jo want the wizard to hit Roger Skunk s mommy?
Why is an adult s perspective on life different from that of a child?
What is the moral issue that the story raises?
What kind of a person was Evans?
Who visited Evans on the morning of the examination? What did they visit him for?
What two purposes did the correction slip serve? Which of them did Evans consider more important?
How was Evans able to devise a foolproof plan for escape from prison?
Should criminals in prison be given the opportunity of learning and education? Give reasons in support of your answer.
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below : Life is a struggle. We live in deeds and not in
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below: It was a rare occasion for ten students of this
You are going abroad. You want to sell your house, built three years ago. Draft an advertisement giving all the necessary details
Design an attractive poster on the conservation of water.
Last month you purchased a TV set from Ram Electronics, Pushpa Vihar, Bhedaghat. It is not working properly. Imagine a few
You are Shekhar/Shweta of 4, Balaji Road, Indore. Write a letter to your friend advising him to study English and general
You are Randhir/Radha. Hindustan Times who witnessed a fire accident in Central market, Bhopal. Using the information in the
Write an article in about 200 words on The Importance of Games and Sports.
Fill in the blanks choosing the correct option : (i) I have seen _______ lot of places. (a) all (b) a (c) an (d) the
Do as directed : (i) The boy is my cousin. The boy is wearing a red shirt. [Rewrite the pair of sentences using who ]
Read the following extract carefully and answer the questions given below it : When I first visited Gandhi in 1942 at his Ashram
Read the following extract carefully and answer the questions given below : Driving from my parent s home to Cochin last
Read the following extract carefully and answer the questions given below : The chief astrologer placed his finger on his nose in
What was Franz expected to be prepared with for school that day? (in about 30 words )
What is Saheb looking for in the garbage dumps ? Where is he and where has he come from ? (in about 30 words )
Why was Douglas determined to get over his fear of water ? (in about 30 words )
What made the peddler think that he had indeed fallen into a rattrap ? (in about 30 words )
List the places that Gandhiji visited between his first meeting with Shukla and his arrival at Champaran. (in about 30 words )
Why do most celebrity writers despise being interviewed ? (in about 30 words )
How, in your opinion, can Mukesh realise his dream ? (in about 30 words )
What does the poet want for the children of the slum ? How can their lives be made to change ? (in about 30 words)
What will counting upto twelve and keeping still help us achieve ? (in about 30 words)
List the things of beauty mentioned in the poem A thing of beauty. (in about 30 words)
What is the childish longing that the poet refers to ? Why is it vain ? (in about 30 words)
Who was Dr. Sadao ? Where was his house ? (in about 30 words)
How does Jo want the story to end and why ? (in about 30 words)
Who is tiger king ? Why does he get this name? (in about 30 words)
Why should child labour be eliminated and how ? (in about 75 words )
What made the peddler finally change his ways ? (in about 75 words )
How does ECO find the time to write so much ? (in about 75 words )
What do you think is the colour of Sour Cream ? Why do you think the poet has used this expression to describe the classroom walls ? (in about 75 words )
Why is grandeur associated with the mighty dead ? (in about 75 words )
Why is Antarctica the place to go to, to understand the earth s present, past and future ? (in about 75 words )
Who is Mr. Lamb ? How does Derry get into his garden ? (in about 75 words )
Passages : The choices we make on a daily basis-wearing a seatbelt, lifting heavy objects correctly or purposely
Passages : Cataract is the major cause of blindness, which is also caused by damage to the cornea. It occurs more
Passages : Then all the windows of the grey wooden house (Miss Hilton used to live here. She expired last week),
Passages : Caged behind thick, glass the most famous dancer in the world can easily be missed in the National Mus
Passages : Once upon a time, there lived a queen in the city of Benaras. Her name was Khema and she was the wife
Passages : Akbar was the son of humble parents. His father was a schoolmaster. There was never very much money in
Passages : Oscar Wilde once remarked, Most people are other people. Their thoughts are someone elses opinions, th
Passages : The task which Gandhiji had taken in hand was not only the achievement of political freedom but also t
Passages : In November 1918, Dr. Ambedkar joined Sydenham College as a professor of political economics and worke
Passages : The great sage once had a group of disciples. They were all very bright and eager students and the sag
Note Making : Destruction of forests has a major impact on the productivity of our croplands. This happens in two
Note Making : Womens education in India is one of the foremost concerns of the Government of India as well as of
Note Making : Life is not a bed of roses, but a bed of thorns. It is full of dangers and difficulties. In the rac
Note Making : Conversation is indeed the most easily teachable of all arts. All you need to do in order to become
Note Making : In the world have we made health an end in itself? We have forgotten that health is really a means
Note Making : Although speech is the most advanced form of communication, there are many ways of communicating wi
Note Making : Fat comes in two types; Omega-3 which is found in marine life and Omega-6 which is concentrated in
Note Making : Life is not a bed of roses, but a bed of thorns. It is full of dangers and difficulties. In the rac
Note Making : Conversation is indeed the most easily teachable of all arts. All you need to do in order to become
Note Making : In the world have we made health an end in itself? We have forgotten that health is really a means
WRITING : You are the secretary of Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Prepare an attractive poster app
WRITING : You are the Cultural Minister of your school Your school Govt. H. S. S. Datia is going to organize a Ba
WRITING : Prepare an attractive poster against the use of drugs.
WRITING : Design an attractive and instructive poster of the Bhopal Police to educate and warn the people not to
WRITING : Design an attractive poster with catchy slogans on Blood Donation Camp
WRITING : You are Ankit Gupta. You have found a school bag in your school compound. Prepare a Lost and Found noti
WRITING : You are Alok Khare, the secretary of the cultural activities of your school. Draft a notice giving info
WRITING : Design an attractive and instructive poster of the Delhi Police to educate and warn the people against-
WRITING : Your father has been transferred to another city. You want to sell certain household goods. Design a su
WRITING : You are Aishwarya Patel, student of class XII of Govt. HSS, Dewas. You have found a bag in the school p
WRITING : You are S. Rajan of Barwani. You want to let your flat. Write out an advertisement to be published in t
WRITING : You are Rishi Sahni. Your father has been transferred to Delhi. You want to sell certain household good
WRITING : With the help of the following words given below produce a write up on NSS Camp (in about 120 words)
WRITING : With the help of the following inputs produce a write up on Value of Games.
WRITING : You have witnessed an accident. Write a report for a newspaper about the accident using the following d
WRITING : You are Kunal, as a responsible citizen you have organized a campaign on Say No to Polythene Bags in yo
WRITING : Last Monday you went to the hospital to see your friend who was admitted there. Using the following inp
WRITING : Write an article on Man, Computer and Mobile for your school magazine using the following inputs. ( in
WRITING : Write a short paragraph on any one of the following topics in about 120 words.
Informal letters : You are Praveen Mahajan, residing at 23 Janki Nagar Indore. Write a letter to friend Jaideep d
Informal letters : You are Mohan Verma living at 121 Sharda Colony Jabalpur. Write a letter to your father about
Informal letters : Write a letter to your friend Amar giving him tips to prepare for JEE mains exams.
Informal letters : You are Amit Nema, living at 123-Gagan Hostel Ratlam. Write a letter to your father describing
Informal letters : Write a letter to your friend Sujata inviting her to spend the summer vacation at your place B
Formal Letters : Write a letter to M/s Deepali stationery mart, New market, Ratlam asking them to send their rate
Formal Letters : Write a letter to the collector of your district about the lack of facilities and malfunctioning
Formal Letters : Write a letter to the collector of your district about the nuisance of loudspeakers in your area
Formal Letters : Write an application to the principal of your school requesting him to issue a School Leaving Ce
Formal Letters : Write an application to the Principal requesting him to issue you a character certificate as you
Formal Letters : You are Aditya Pandey, residing at 53, Vikas Nagar, Ujjain. Write a letter to the Postmaster com
Fill in the blanks : DETERMINERS A. Complete the following sentences using some/any.
Complete the following sentences using much/many. 1. I made a good. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . friends. 2. There
Complete the following sentences using each/every. 1. There were four books on the table. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Complete the following sentences using either/neither. 1. There are two restaurants here. We cant go to . . . . .
Complete the following sentences using all/whole/both. 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . exercises are not equ
Complete the following sentences using few/a few/the few/little/a little/the little 1. He is not popular. He has.
MODALS Fill in the blanks using the appropriate modal given in the bracket. 1. He is the chief guest. He . . . .
Do as directed. CLAUSES Combine the following pairs of sentences to make a compound sentence using one of the con
Combine the pair of sentences into a complex sentence having an adverbial clause of reason/cause. 1. You are hone
Combine the pair of sentences into a complex sentence having an adverbial clause of contrast. 1. Our team played
Combine the pair of sentences into a complex sentence having an adverbial clause of manner. 1. You have treated m
Combine the pair of sentences into a complex sentence having an adverbial clause of time. 1. There is life. There
Combine the pair of sentences into a complex sentence having an adverbial clause of purpose. 1. He works hard. He
Combine the pair of sentences into a complex sentence having an adverbial clause of condition. 1. You speak the t
Combine the pair of sentences into a complex sentence having an adverbial clause of result/consequence. 1. He was
Combine the pair of sentences into a complex sentence having an adjective/relative clause. 1. The place was a rai
Combine the pair of sentences into a complex sentence having a noun clause. 1. He is honest. I do not doubt it.
Combine the pair of sentences using a non-finite clause. 1. He lied in the bed. He was reading a novel.
Do as directed As soon as he knew my result, he informed me. (Rewrite the sentence using no sooner. . . . . . . t
Identify the underlined clauses in the following sentence and tell if they are adverbial clauses/ adjective claus
Extract : Poor man! It was in honour of this last lesson that he had put on his fine Sunday clothes, and now I un
Extract : When I passed the town hall there was a crowd in front of the bulletin board. For the last two years al
Extract : My children, this is the last lesson | shall give you. The order has come from Berlin to teach only Ger
Extract : Why do you do this? I ask Saheb whom I encounter every morning scrounging for gold in the garbage dumps
Extract : If I start a school, will you come? I ask, half-joking. Yes, he says, smiling broadly. A few days later
Extract : It had happened when I was ten or eleven years old. I had decided to learn to swim. There was a pool at
Extract : From the beginning, however, I had an aversion to the water when I was in it. This started when I was t
Extract : When Frank Buchmans Moral Rearmament Army, some two hundred strong, visited Madras sometime in 1952, th
Extract : In all instances of frustration, you will always find the anger directed towards a single person openly
Extract : Lewis Carroll, the creator of Alice in Wonderland, was said to have had a just horror of the interviewe
Extract : ince its invention a little over 130 years ago, the Interview has become a commonplace of journalism. T
Extract : Sophie watched her back stooped over the sink and wondered at the incongruity of the delicate bow which
Extract : It was nothing like that, Geoff- It was me spoke first. When I saw who it was, said, Excuse me, but are
Extract : After dark she walked by the canal, along a sheltered path lighted only by the glare of the lamps from
Extract : The old man was just as generous with his confidences as with his porridge and tobacco. The guest was i
Extract Poem : Driving from my parents Home to Cochin last Friday Morning, I saw my mother, Beside me,
Extract Poem : But after the airports security check, standing a few yards away, I looked again at her, wan, pale
Extract Poem : Now we will count to twelve And we will all keep still. For once on the face of the Earth Lets not
Extract Poem : And such too is the grandeur of the dooms We have imagined for the mighty dead; All lovely tales t
Extract Poem : Spite of despondence, of the inhuman dearth Of noble natures, of the gloomy days, Of all the unhea
Extract Poem : The little old house was out with a little new shed In front at the edge of the road where the tra
Extract Poem : It is in the news that all these pitiful kin Are to be bought out and mercifully gathered in To li
Extract Poem : When Aunt is dead, her terrified hands will lie Still ringed with ordeals she was mastered by. The
Extract Poem : Aunt Jennifers tigers prance across a screen, Bright topaz denizens of a world of green. They do n
Extract from : Vistas : Yes, Ive taken the obvious step: I talked to a psychiatrist friend of mine, among others.
Extract Poem : Everyone stood transfixed in stupefaction. They looked wildly at each other and blinked. O wise pr
Extract Poem : Crown prince Jung Jung Bahadur grew taller and stronger day by day. No other miracle marked his ch
Extract Poem : Early this year, I found myself aboard a Russian research vessel the Akademik Shokalskiy heading t
Extract Poem : Later on, when its a bit cooler, Ill get the ladder and a stick, and pull down those crab apples.
Extract Poem : You think. . . . Here a boy. You look at me and then you see my face and you think. Thats bad. Tha
Extract Poem : Early this year, I found myself aboard a Russian research vessel – the Akademik Shokalskiy — headi
Extract Poem : The injured man was an American. As his cap fell off, they saw his wet, yellow - coloured hair whi
What was Franz expected to be prepared with for school that day?
What did Franz notice that was unusual about the school that day?
What had been put up on the bulletin board?
What changes did the order from Berlin cause on school that day?
How did Franzs feelings about M Hamel and school change?
Why did Franz not want to go to school that day?
What tempted Franz to stay away from school?
What was unusual about M Hamels dress on his last day in the school?
Why the order from Berlin is called a thunderclap by Franz?
Why were the villagers sitting in the classroom?
Who did M Hamel blame for the students poor performance in study?
How did M Hamel praise the French language?
What words M Hamel write on the blackboard before leaving the last class? What did they mean?
What was the fear in little Franzs mind when he started for school in the morning?
What did Franz see while he was going to school?
Why was Franz not scolded for reaching the school late that day?
How did M Hamel dress himself on his last day at school?
What information did M Hamel give to his students in his last class?
What does the writer mean when she says, Saheb is no longer his own master?
How is Mukesh different from the other bangle makers of Firozabad?
What does the title, Lost Spring convey?
Who is Mukesh? What is his dream?
Is Saheb happy working at the tea stall? Why/ Why not?
Mention any two problems faced by the bangle sellers.
Why did Sahebs parents leave Dhaka and migrate to India?
What is Mukeshs dream? Do you think he will be able to fulfil his dream? Why? Why not?
What does Saheb look for in the garbage 1 dumps?
Why was Saheb unhappy while working at the tea-stall
What is the misadventure that William Douglas speaks about?
What were the series of emotions and fears that Douglas experienced when he was thrown into the pool? What plans
How did this experience affect him?
Why was Douglas determined to get over his fear of water?
How did the instructor build a swimmer out of Douglas?
How did Douglas make sure that he conquered the old terror?
What sort of terror seized Douglas as he went down the water with a yellow glow? How could he feel that he was st
Why did William Douglas develop aversion to the water when he was three or four years old?
What misadventure did William Douglas experience at the YMCA pool?
Why did Douglas go to Lake Wentworth in New Hampshire?
Which factors led Douglas to decide in favour of YMCA pool?
What did Douglas learn from his experience at the YMCA pool?
From where did the peddler get the idea of the world being a rattrap?
Why was he amused by this idea?
Did the peddler expect the kind of hospitality which he received from the crofter?
Why was the crofter so talkative and friendly with the peddler?
Why did he show the thirty kronor to the peddler?
Did the peddler respect the confidence reposed in him by the crofter?
What made the peddler think that he had indeed fallen into rattrap?
Why did the iron master speak kindly to the peddler and invite him home?
Why did the peddler deny his invitation?
What caused the peddler to accept Edla Willmanssons invitation?
What doubts did Edla have about the peddler?
When did the iron master realise his mistake?
What did the peddler say in his defence when the iron master had mistaken him for someone else?
Why did Edla still entertain the peddler even after knowing the truth about him?
Why was Edla happy to see the gift left by the peddler?
Why did the peddler sign himself as Captain Von Stahle?
Why did the servants think Gandhi to be another peasant?
What did the British landlords want the pigeons to pay as rent?
What would be the impact of synthetic Indigo on the prices of natural Indigo?
Why did Gandhi agree to a settlement of 25 percent refund to the farmers?
How did this episode change the plight of the peasants?
How was Gandhi able to influence lawyers?
Why did Gandhi consider the Champaran episode to be a turning point in his life?
Why did Gandhi chide the lawyers of Muzaffarpur?
Why is Pancakes related to Gemini Studios?
What does Pancakes refer to?
What work did the office boy do in the Gemini Studios?
Who was Subbus principal?
Who was the English visitor to the studios?
Who was the boss of Gemini Studios?
How was the make-up of the crowd done? 8. Who was Subbu?
Where was Gemini Studios located?
What did the story department of the studio comprise of?
What was the general dress in that Gemini Studios?
Who was the poet that visited the Gemini Studios?
What was the special talent that Subbu possessed?
Did the people at Gemini Studios have any particular political affiliations?
What does The God that Failed refer to?
How does V. S. Naipaul comment on interview?
What is the belief in some primitive cultures about being photographed?
What does Caroline write in her diary on 14 October 1892?
What are interstices?
How many copies of the novel The Name of The Rose have been sold?
What is semiotics?
Who has written the novel The Name of The Rose?
How does some celebrities despise the interview?
Give the name of the two celebrities whom H. G. Wells interviewed?
Why was Roland Barthes frustrated?
How does Eco find time to write so much?
Who were the celebrities that disliked interviews?
What do celebrities think about interviews?
What was believed in primitive culture?
For how many copies Umberto Eco was given advance?
What do you understand by thumbprints on his windpipe?
What are some of the positive views on interviews?
How does Denis Brian express about interview?
What did The English novelist and academic David Lodge comment about Umberto Eco?
Do you think Umberto Eco likes being interviewed? Give reasons for your opinion.
What type of novel is The Name of The Rose?
What did Rudyard Kipling say about interviews?
What puzzled the journalists and the publishers?
Why Eco was popular?
Why did Kipling dislike being interviewed?
Where was it most likely that the two girls would find work after school?
What were the options that Sophie was dreaming of?
Why did Sophie wriggle when Geoff told her father that she had met Danny Casey?
Did Sophies father believe in her story of meeting Danny Casey?
Which country did Danny Casey play for?
Why didnt Sophie want Janie to know about her story with Danny?
Did Sophie meet Danny Casey?
Which was the only occasion when she got to see Danny Casey in person?
Why did Sophie long for her brothers affection?
Who was Danny Casey? How was he adored by Sophies family?
Why did Sophie choose to walk by the canal? What did she do there?
Why did Sophie not want Jansie to know about her meeting with Danny Casey?
What did Sophie want to keep as a secret from her father and why?
Why is Sophie attracted towards Danny Casey?
Why is Jansie so critical of Sophie?
What is wrong with Janises outlook on life?
What is the kind of pain and ache that the poet feels?
Why are the young trees described as sprinting?
Why has the poet brought in the image of the merry children spilling out of their homes?
Why has the mother been compared to the late winters moon?
What do the parting words of the poet and her smile signify?
What were the poets feelings at the airport? How did she hide them?
How does the poet try to put away the thoughts of her ageing mother while driving to Kochi airport?
Do you think the poet advocates total inactivity and death?
What is the sadness that the poet refers to in the poem?
What symbol from Nature does the poet invoke to say that there can be life under apparent stillness?
How would keeping quiet affect the life in and around the sea?
Life is what it is about; How is keeping quiet related to life?
Why does one feela sudden strangeness on counting to twelve and keeping quiet?
How will keeping quiet protect our environment?
What does the poet want us to tell?
What does the poet mean by saying victory with no survivors?
What are the different types of wars mentioned in the poem?
What is Nerudas attitude towards these wars?
What pleasure does a beautiful thing give us?
Are beautiful things worth treasuring?
What image does the poet use to describe the beautiful bounty of the earth?
Why is grandeur associated with the mighty dead?
How long do we experience things of beauty?
List the things that cause suffering and pain.
Why does the poet call the car selfish?
What was the plea of the folk who had put up the roadside stand?
Have you ever stopped at a roadside stand? What have you observed there?
What is the childish longing that the poet refers to? Why is it vain?
Which lines tell us about the insufferable pain that the poet feels at the thought of the plight of the rural poo
What was the request made by the rural people who had put up the roadside stand?
What did the sign offer?
Why did the farmers curse wealthy city people?
Why has a new shed been put up at the road side stand?
How did the good-doers want to help the poor village people?
What is meant by polished traffic?
Why was the road side stand in a miserable condition?
What did the country people complain?
What is the demand of the roadside stand?
What attitude does the polished traffic show?
What is sold by the roadside sellers?
How do denizens and chivalric add to our understanding of the tigers attitude?
Of what or of whom is Aunt Jennifer terrified with?
Why are the tigers called Aunt Jennifers tigers?
What does wedding band stand for?
What is the result of fluttering?
Why are the tigers not afraid of men?
What does the tiger symbolize in the poem?
How are Aunt Jennifers tigers described?
What is Aunt Jennifer doing with her wool?
What is Aunt Jennifers state of mind?
What does The Third Level refer to?
Would Charley ever go back to the ticket-counter on the third level to buy tickets to Galesburg for himself and h
How did Charley reach the third level of the Grand Central Station?
Why doesnt Charley consider stamp collecting habit a way of escapism?
What things at the third level of the Grand Central Station made Charley ascertain that he had reached the 1894 w
Why did Charley run away from the third level?
What is referred to as a temporary refuge from reality? Why?
How did the narrators psychiatrist friend react to the formers experience about the third level?
What were the different names given to the King of Pratibandapuram?
How did the Tiger King acquire his name?
When he was only ten days old, a prediction was made about the future of the Tiger King. What was ironic about it
Why did the Maharaja decide to get married?
When was the Tiger King stand in danger of losing his kingdom?
How did the Tiger King manage to retain his kingdom?
Why did the Maharaja ban tiger hunting in his state?
What sort of hunt did the Maharaja offer to organise for the high-ranking British officer? What trait of the offi
How did the king kill the tiger?
Why did the king order the dewan to double the tax?
Why was the dewan not in favour of doubling the tax? What did the king then ordered him to do?
How was the royal infant brought up?
Why did one of the hunters kill the hundredth tiger?
Why did the dewan arrange the hundredth? Tiger for the king?
What happened to the tiger provided by the dewan?
What present did the king brought for his son on his third birthday? How much did he pay for it?
How did the Tiger King meet his death?
Why was the Maharaja sunk in gloom even after having killed seventy tigers?
How did the royal infant grew up?
What did the Maharaja do to find the required number of tigers to kill?
How do geological phenomena help us to know about the history of humankind?
What are the indications for the future of humankind?
The worlds geological history is trapped in Antarctica. How is the study of this region useful to us?
What are Geoff Greens reasons for including high school students in the Students on Ice Expedition?
Take care of the small things and the big things will take care of themselves.
What is the relevance of the statement in the context of the Antarctica environment?
Why is Antarctica the place to go to understand the Earths present, past and future?
What emotions did the author experience when she reached Antarctica at last?
How would you describe Gondwana?
What is that thing that can happen in a million years and would be mind boggling?
In what respect, Tisane Dashis encounter with Antarctica is a chilling prospect?
What is the visual experience in Antarctica?
How, according to the author, has mankind etched its dominance over nature?
How has Antarctica sustained itself and managed to remain pristine?
How is global temperature increasing? What are the immediate fears due to it?
How is Antarctica a crucial element in the debate of climate change?
What are the reasons for the success of the Students on Ice programme?
What is that beauty of balance that a trip to Antarctica unfolded to the author?
Who was Dr. Sadao?
Why was Dr. Sadao kept in Japan and not sent abroad with the troops?
Where did doctor Sadao and Hana meet?
In what condition did Dr. Sadao and Hana find the white man at the seashore?
What did Dr. Sadao and his wife do with the man?
What was the reaction of the servants when they were told about the wounded white man?
How did Dr. Sadao help Tom, the white man to escape?
Who is Mr. Lamb? Where does he live?
How does Derry get into his garden?
How does Derry get his face burnt?
How does Mr. Lamb get the leg of Tin?
What does Mr. Lamb do in his garden?
How does some kids call Mr. Lamb?
When does the leg of tin hurt Mr. Lamb?
Why does Mr. Lamb leave the gate of his house always open?
Why is Derry worried all the time?
What did she notice about the Indian girls in the school?
What was Zitkaka-sas idea regarding short-shingled hair?
Why was the girls tied to the chair in in Memories of Childhood?
When did the narrator experience untouchability?
Why did the narrator feel terribly sad and provoked?
What advice did Annan offer Bama?
What do you know about Bama?
What type of child was Bama?
What was Bama interested as a child?
What was the elder doing that amused Bama?
What did her elder brother say about the way the elder was carrying the packet?
Why did Zitkala-sa resist the shingling of her hair?
How did Annans advice to his sister Bama impact her?
What were the indignities that Zitkala-sa had to suffer for being from a marginalized community?
Why did Zitkala-sa begin to cry when others started eating at the dining table?
How did the order from Berlin change the atmosphere in the school? (75 words. )
What did Mr. Hamel, Franz and the villagers regret for during the last lesson?
Justify the title of the story The Last Lesson.
Give a brief account of life and activities of the people like Saheb-e-Alam settled in Seemapuri.
How is Mukeshs attitude towards his situation different from that of Saheb? Why?
Who was Mukesh? What did he want to do in his life and what did he not want to follow?
Children like Saheb often go for private jobs in very small age. Is this their final destiny? How can such situat
What did the narrator notice in the locality where Mukesh lived? What was the condition of bangle makers?
Every other house in Firozabad is engaged in glass industry. Even then the makers remain in miserable condition.
Who was Saheb? What was the plight that compelled him to wander in the streets of Delhi for ragpicking ?
What is the vicious circle of middlemen? How are they trapped since the time of their forefathers? Can they get o
Lost Spring explains the grinding poverty and traditions that condemn thousands of people to a life of abject pov
The bangle makers of Firozabad make beautiful bangles and make everyone happy but they live and die in squalor. E
How does Douglas make clear to the reader the sense of panic that gripped him as he almost drowned? Describe the
How did Douglas overcome his fear of water?
When Douglas realised that he was sinking, how did he plan to save himself?
What did Douglas experience as he went down to the bottom of the pool for the first time?
How did William Douglass aversion to water begin?
Why did William Douglas use the YMCA pool and not Yakima River to learn swimming?
What happened when a big bruiser of a boy tossed Douglas into the YMCA pool? How did Douglas plan to come out?
Which two incidents in Douglas early life made him scared of water?
Why did Douglas prefer to go to YMCA swimming pool to learn swimming?
What did Douglas feel and do when he was pushed into the swimming pool?
How does the peddler interpret the acts of kindness and hospitality shown by the crofter, the iron master, and hi
Describe the instances in the story that show that the character of the iron master is different from that of his
What made the peddler finally change his ways?
How does the metaphor of the rattrap serve to highlight the human predicament?
The story focuses on human loneliness and the need to bond with others.
Why is Rajkumar Shukla described as being resolute?
What was the attitude of the average Indian in smaller localities towards advocates of Home Rule?
What was Gandhis politics intertwined with?
Discuss the qualities of a good leader with reference to Gandhis role in Champaran movement.
How do we know that ordinary people also contributed to the freedom movement of India?
What is the example of the national integration that the author refers to?
Subbu is described as a many-sided genius. List four of his special abilities.
Why was the moral Rearmament Army welcomed at the studios?
Name one example to show that Gemini Studios was influenced by the plays staged by MRA?
What made the lawyers stand out from the others at Gemini Studios?
Why was the office boy frustrated? Who did he show his anger on?
How did the author discover who the English visitor to the studios was?
What does the writer mean by the fiery misert of those subjected to make up?
Why was the author appear to be doing nothing at the studios?
What caused the lack of communication between the Englishman and the people at Gemini Studios?
Why was the legal adviser referred to as the opposite by others?
Why is the Englishmans visit referred to as unexplained mystery?
Why was Kothamangalam Subbu considered No. 2 in Gemini Studios?
How does the author describe the incongruity of an English poet addressing the audience at Gemini Studios?
What do you understand about the authors literary inclinations from the account?
What do you understand by thumbprints on his windpipe?
What are some of the positive views on interviews?
How does Denis Brian express about interview?
What did The English novelist and academic David Lodge comment about Umberto Eco?
Do you think Umberto Eco likes being interviewed? Give reasons for your opinion.
What type of novel is The Name of The Rose?
What did Rudyard Kipling say about interviews?
What puzzled the journalists and the publishers?
Why did Kipling dislike being interviewed?
What is the reason for the huge success of the novel The Name of The Rose?
Write a note on WRITING style of Umberto Eco?
What did one of the professors say about Ecos Doctoral dissertation?
What was distinctive about Ecos academic WRITING style?
Express your opinion on Interviews
How would you describe the character and temperament of Sophies father?
Why does Jansie discourage her to have such dreams?
What are the indicators of her family financial status?
Why did Sophie like her brother Geoff more than any other person? From her perspective, what did he symbolize?
Sophie and Jansie were classmates and friends. What were the differences between them that show up in the story?
What impression do you form of Sophie on reading the story Going Places?
What socio-economic background does Sophie belong to?
Sophies dream and disappointments are all in her mind. Discuss.
It is natural for teenagers to have unrealistic dreams. What would you say are the benefits and disadvantages of
What was Sophies dream? How was it unrealistic?
How was Jansie different from Sophie? How were Sophie and Jansie different?
Differentiate between Sophie and Janises attitude towards life.
Attempt a character sketch of Sophie in your own words.
How is Sophie a daydreamer?
How Sophies father is is a good guardian?
Write the central idea of the poem My Mother at Sixty-Six. (Long Answer)
Write the central idea of the poem Keeping Quiet
What makes human beings love life in spite of troubles and sufferings?
Explain the gist of the poem A Thing of Beauty.
What will be a great relief to the poet? How can the problems of the rural people be solved?
The economic well-being of a country depends on a balanced d
Why do you think Aunt Jennifer s hands are fluttering through her wool? Why is she finding the needle so hard to pull?
What is suggested by the image massive weight of Uncle s wedding band ?
What are the ordeals Aunt Jennifer is surrounded by? Why is it significant that the poet uses the word ringed ?
How does Aunt Jennifer express her bitterness and anger against males?
What are the difficulties that Aunt Jennifer faced in her life?
Interpret the symbols found in Aunt Jennifers Tigers?
Do you sympathize with Aunt Jennifer? What is the attitude of the speaker towards Aunt Jennifer?
The third level was a medium of escape for Charley. Explain the statement in the light of the story The Third Lev
Do you think that the third level was a medium of escape for Charley? Why?
The modern world is full of insecurity, fear, war, worry and stress. What are the ways in which we attempt to ove
Describe briefly Charleys strange experience in the third level.
Justify the title of the story The Third Level.
How did the Tiger King stand in danger of losing his kingdom? How was he able to avoid the danger? Explain.
What rumour was rife in Pratibandapuram about the crown prince Jung Jung Bahadur?
The astrologers predicted about the king, The child will grow up to become the warrior of warriors, hero of heroe
The astrologers prediction about the death of the Tiger King came to be true. Do you agree with this statement?
What values of life does the story Tiger King give us?
How can you say that the dewan was a comical character?
Who was the Tiger King? Why did he get that name?
What happened to the astrologer? Do you think the prophecy was indisputably disproved?
The story is a satire on the conceit of those in power. How does the author employ the literary device of dramati
What is the significance of the title Journey to the End of the Earth?
The author says, It was nothing short of a revelation: everything does connect. What does it mean? By whom and wi
What makes Antarctica an ideal subject of study?
The author states that her Antarctic experience was full of epiphanies, but the best occurred just short of the A
Why does the author conclude the chapter by saying that a lot can happen in a million years, but what a differenc
What are phytoplanktons? What is their importance?
Why does the author feel that the prognosis for the human beings is not healthy?
Why is it necessary to remain fully equipped while walking on ice?
Describe the difficulties faced by Dr. Sadao and his wife Hana when he tried to help the enemy soldier?
How would you explain the reluctance of the soldier to leave the shelter of the doctors home?
Write a character sketch of Dr. Sadao.
What is it that draws Derry towards Mr. Lamb in spite of himself?
Mr. Lamb is lonely and disappointed. How do you
How should one behave with the physically challenged persons?
What explanations does Derry offer foe coming into the garden?
How do people react and try to console those suffering from some physical impairment?
Why does Mr. Lamb leave his garden open?
Handsome is as handsome does. Explain.
How did meeting with Mr. Lamb become a turning point in Derrys life?
Do you agree that Derry was reluctant to meet people? If yes. Why
How did Zitkala-sa feel when her long heavy hair was cut
Eating by the formula was the hardest trial in that first day. says Zitkala-sa what does she mean by eating by fo
How did Zitkala-sa react on various sounds coming continuously when the long bell rang for breakfast?
The distance from the narrators school to her home could be covered in ten minutes. Why did she then cover it usu
How did the narrator find her new place?
It may take a long time for oppression to be resisted, but the seeds of rebellion are sowed early in life. Do you
Bamas experience is that of a victim of the caste system. What kind of discrimination does Zitkala-Sas experience
Discrimination on any ground is unfair. Express your views on it.
Why did Bama Stroll in the marketplace instead of hurrying back home? Describe the sights she enjoyed seeing ther
Untouchability is not a crime, it is in human too. Why and how did Bama decided to fight against it?
What are the differences between Zitkala-sa and Bama?
What do you know about Zitkala-sa?
Is Bama a rebellion? Elaborate.
What are the differences in the two memories of childhood?
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below: The Gita is not an aphoristic work; it is a great religious
Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below : Coal is a natural resource which constitutes approximately
You are Abraham John, the secretary of your schools Science Club. A Science exhibition is being organized in your school. Write a notice for the school notice board inviting projects and models from the students. The exhibition is to be held on 28 February.
Your father has been transferred to another city. You want to sell certain household goods. Design a suitable advertisement to be published in a local newspapers.
You are Anuj Dubey. Write a letter to your friend describing a recent exciting cricket match in which your team won.
Last month you bought a digital camera from Modern Electronics, Jabalpur. Now you find something wrong with it. It is not working properly. Write a letter to the dealer complaining about the problem.
You are Sonia Nigam. While watching a news channel covering a rally of Green peace Activists. Write an article for a newspaper on Its worth, Saving the Earth.
Write a paragraph in about 200 words on whether the study of three languages at school is necessary or not.
Fill in the blanks choosing the correct option: (1) The temple is __________ the middle of the river. (a) on (b) in (c) into (d) at (2) Lets
Do as directed : (1) He is too weak to stand. [Rewrite using so ....... that ] (2) The child cried for milk. [Change into past continuous
Read the following extract carefully and answer the questions given below it: It had happened when I was ten or eleven years old. I had
Read the following extract and answer the questions : Yes, in spite of all , Some shape of beauty moves away the pall , From our dark
Read the following extract and answer the questions given below it : Sadao knew that his education was his fathers chief concern. For
What did Franz notice that was unusual about the school that day?
What makes the city of Firozabad famous ?
How did the instructor build a swimmer out of Douglas ?
Why was the crofter so talkative and friendly with the peddler ?
Why do you think the servants thought Gandhi to be another peasant ?
Subbu is described as a many sided genius. List two of his special abilities.
Why didnt sophie want Jansie to know about her story with Danny ?
Why are the young trees described as springing in the poem My mother at sixty six?
What will counting upto twelve and keeping still help us achieve ?
What makes human beings love life in spite of troubles and sufferings?
What is suggested by the image massive weight of uncles wedding band ?
What will the Maharaja do to find the required number of tigers to kill?
What are the indications for the future of humankind?
What will Dr. Sadao and his wife do with the man?
What could be some of the reasons for the migration of people from villages to cities?
How did Douglas overcome his fear of water?
How do we know that ordinary people too contributed to the freedom movement ?
Why is grandeur associated with the mighty dead ?
What symbol from nature does the poet invoke to say that there can be life under apparent stillness ?
Do you think that the third level was a medium of escape for Charley? Why?
What is it that draws Derry towards Mr. Lamb inspite of himself?