Choose and write the correct options (a) Who has created 'Elements of Geography' Book ?
Fill in the blanks : (i) Indian Forest Research Institute is located in ________.
Match the following: (a) Tourism town
Answer in one sentence. (i) What is truck farming ?
According to the Blache, write the definition of human geography.
Write any two points of subject matter of Human geography.
Bhilai and Jamshedpur examplify which kind of cities ?
Which kind of city is Haridwar ?
What is the environmental pollution ?
Write the two causes of noise pollution.
Describe the direct benefits of forests. (any three)
Write three problems of Indian agriculture.
Write the difference between transmission and communication. (any three)
Write any three importance of rail transport.
Write any three importance of water transport.
Write names of any three means of communication and describe any one.
State any four reasons for population growth in Asia.
Describe any four economic indicators of human development.
Write the geographical conditions that are required for wheat production.
Write any four characteristics of commercial farming.
Describe any four physical factors affecting the air route.
Describe any four types of ports.
Describe any four factors affecting population distribution.
Explain the difference between rural and urban population.
Write any four solutions for forest conservation.
Write any four reasons for soil erosion.
Write any five differences in subsistence agriculture and commercial agriculture.
Write any five problems of industry.
Show the following on the map of the world : (1) New York (2) Cap - Cahira railway (3) Indian Ocean
Show the following on the map of the world : (1) Trans Continental railway (2) Singapore (3) Sahara desert
Write any five reasons for the development of the textiles industry in Mumbai.
Describe five reasons for localization of steel industry in Bhilai:
Choose and write the correct options : In which of the following regions has the oldest well-documented urban settlement found?
Fill in the blanks : (a) Older population is of more than ______ age. (b) Most of village of Gangatic plan are of ______ types.
Match the following: (i) Geographic information sources (a) Primary activities (ii) Developed countries (b) Artificial satellite
Write answer in one sentence : (i) Write the worst result of population growth. (ii) Which type of city is Bhopal in Madhya
Choose true/false and write : (i) Grifith Taylor is considered the father of Neo-determinism. (ii) The sex ratio increases with a
Write sub-fields of human geography.
What is Neo-determinism ? Write.
Write business that comes under primary sector.
Write any two agro based industries.
What is balance of trade ? Write.
What is international trade ? Write.
Give two examples of plantation agriculture.
Mining work is related to which field ?
Write two types of city.
Write about the main occupation of the people of rural settlement.
Write names of two places with low density in India.
What is immigration? Write.
What is called human settlement ? Write.
What is called education city? Write.
Write any two diseases caused by air pollution.
Write the type of pollution.
Write any three difference between rural and urban population.
How population growth affects the economic development of the country ? Write. (any three)
Write three characteristics of manufacturing industry.
Write any three bases of international trade.
Write any three objectives of Swachh Bharat Mission.
Write any three consequences of migration.
Write any three problems of Indian agriculture.
Write down the developments due to planning.
Write the types of Indian agriculture.
Write measures to promote sustainable development in Indira Gandhi Canal area.
Identify and write the following places on given World map : (i) Discharge storage area of South America.
Identify and write the following places on given World map : (i) Africa's mixed farming sector. (ii) Australia's commercial grain
Show the following on the map of India : (i) Thar desert (ii) Cotton productive area (iii) Plateau of Chhota Nagpur
Show the following on the map of India : (i) Tea productive area (ii) Mumbai high (iii) Ahmadabad (iv) Rubber productive area
Choose the correct option: Ku. E. C. Semple is geographer of - (i) China (ii) America (ii) Japan (iv) Russia
Fill in the blanks : (i) The bigest Industrial area in India is _____. (ii) Multiformity and ______is in India. (iii) World's longest rail
Answer in one sentence or word : (i) Which farm of Tamil Nadu is example for cultural plan ? (ii) Which State has the lowest
Match the following columns : (a) Tourism cily (i) U.S.A. (b) Black mult (ii) Kandla
Write the meaning of human geography.
Write names of any four human geographers.
Write any two characteristics of urban settlement.
Draw the figure of linear pattern of rural settlement.
Write any two causes of water pollution.
Write any two remedies of urban waste disposal.
Write any three problems of water resources.
Write any three aims of third five year plan.
Write any three characteristics of good port.
Write any three characteristics of foreign trade of India.
Write any three importance of Television.
Write any three importance of rail transport.
Why is compact population in South-East Asia ? Write any four causes.
Distinguish between rural population and urban population. .
What is the truck farming? Which crops are produced in this farming?
Distinguish between cottage industry and large industry.
Why is Trans Siberian railway called Siberian's life line ?
Write any four importance of water transport.
Write any four causes of population growth in India.
Write any four problems of Tribe Caste Community in India.
Write any four causes for Cotton Industry developed in Mumbai.
Write any four indirect advantages of forest.
Describe the types of subsistence agriculture.
Write any five causes of cotton textile Industry developed in Japan.
Show the following in the world map : (1) Trans Canadian Railway (2) Arabian Sea (3) Tokyo (4) New Zeeland (5) Tasmania Island
Show the following in the world map : (1) Trans Indian Railway (2) Panama Canal (3) Shri Lanka (4) Kolkata (5) London to Captown Waterway
Write the geographical conditions that are required for tea production in India. (any five)
Describe any five problems of Indian agriculture.