Choose the correct alternatives and write in your answer box- 2020 & 2019
Fill in the following blanks 2020 & 2019
Match the following pairs : 2020 & 2019
Answer in one sentence : 2020 & 2019
Explain the wireless network.
Write any two advantages of open source software.
What are identifiers ?
Write difference between Break statement and Continue statement.
Differentiate between FLOAT and DOUBLE of MYSQL.
Differentiate between primary key and candidate key.
Explain the java control structure and write its types.
Explain the inheritance and write its types.
What do you mean by network model ? Write its any three advantages.
Explain the following functions with an example : (i) SIGN ( ) (ii) TRUNCAT ( ) (iii) POWER ( )
Explain the following with example : (i) Entity (ii) Attribute (iii) Relationship
Explain the following: (i) E-governance (ii) E-learning (iii) E-commerce
How many types of Networks are there? Write its advantages.
How many are types of computer virus ? Write its disadvantages.
Explain Ordered list with syntex in HTML.
Explain font tag in HTML.
Write features of My SQL.
Explain ACID properties of a transaction.
Explain Aggregate function with its type in MYSQL.
What is Join ? Write its types.
Write the positive impact of ICT in society.
Write the advantages of E-learning and mention the names of two E-learning websites.
Explain various security-threats of internet.
What do you mean by Star Topology ? Write its advantages and disadvantages.
Write the features of object oriented programming.
Write lower case string method and upper case string method with example and syntex in Java.
What is menu-driven user interface ? Write its advantages.
Explain SDLC.
Choose the correct options : ____ return the absolute value of a number. (A) ABS ( ) (B) ACOS ( ) (C) ASIN ( ) (D) ATAN ( )
Fill in the blanks : (i) _________ command is used to modify data in table. (ii) Relational database popular in year ______ .
Match the correct columns : (i) AVG (A) Numphy (ii) Array (B) Modulator and demodulator
Answer in one word : (i) A person who manages the overall DBMS, what is called? (ii) Name series who return a tuple of shape
Write the two benefits of SQL.
What is DBMS?
Write the use of SELECT statement with syntax.
Write the use of group by statement.
What is file system ?
Explain the COUNT function.
Write the features of Python. (any two)
Explain the series in Python.
Write the features of web browser.
Explain E-commerce website with examples.
Write any two differences of Router and Switch.
What is computer network ?
Write any two benifits of social media.
What is licensing ?
Write the names of any two types of cyber crime.
What is Ethical Hacking ?
What is Data Frame ? Explain in brief.
Explain Pivoting.
What is variance ? Write a program in Python to find variance.
What is subplots ( ) function ? Explain.
Write the differences between Star Topology and Ring Topology.
Explain bridge with its types.
Write short notes : Digital Footprint
Write short notes : Copyright
Write about any three types of cyber bulling.
Write the differences between static and dynamic web pages.
Write a short note on network devices. Also mention names of different types of network devices.
Write the features of database system.
Explain any five aggregate functions
Write important features of IT ACT 2000.
Write a detailed note on types of Plagiarism.