Choose the correct options : (a) Income and expenditure a/c is made :
Answer in one word / sentences : (a) By which accounts help the income and expenditure account is prepared ?
Fill in the blanks : (a) By product method, interest on _____ is calculated.
Match the columns : (a) Only individuals
Write True / False : (a) Receipt and payment account is a summary of all capital receipts and payments.
Write the meaning of 'non-trading organization'.
Who are professional persons ?
What is sacrificing ratio ?
Write the meaning of gaining ratio.
What is quick ratio ?
What do you understand by long term loans ?
State the names of different tools of financial analysis. (any two)
Write any two limitations of financial analysis.
What is meant by Gross Profit Ratio ?
How would you find out the cost of goods sold ?
Write any three differences between fixed capital and fluctuating capital account.
Kajal and Kamini share profits and losses in the ratio of 3:2. They admit Rahul as a partner with share in profits with a guarantee that his share of profit shall be at least Rs. 50,000. The net profit of the firm for the year ending 31st March, 2015 was Rs. 1,60,000. Prepare Profit and Loss Appropriation A/c.
Write difference between dissolution of partnership and dissolution of partnership firm. (Any three)
Supriya and Monika are partners who share profit in the ratio of 3:2. Following is the balance sheet as on 31st March, 2017 :
Explain the compulsory dissolution.
What is a realization account?
Write the difference between share and stock (any three)
A limited company issued 80,000 equity shares of Rs. 50 each to the public. The whole amount received on applications. Pass the necessary journal entries.
Explain any four characteristics of partnership.
Ravi and Rohit are equal partners. Their capitals are Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 80,000 respectively. After the accounts for the year have been prepared it is discovered that interest on capital at 5% p.a. as provided in the partnership agreement has not be credited to the capital accounts before distributing of profit. It is decided to make an adjustment entry at the beginning of next year. Record the necessary journal entry.
Anil and Vishal are partners sharing profits in the ratio of 3:2. They admitted Sumit as a new partner for 1/5 share in future profits of the firm. Calculate new profit sharing ratio of Anil, Vishal and Sumit.
A and B share profits in a firm in the ratio of 1:3 respectively. They decide to keep their profit sharing ratio equal in future. Find out the gain or sacrifice of each partner.
Write any four modes or forms of reconstitution of partnership firm.
The average net profit of the firm is Rs. 84,000 per annum. Capital invested is Rs. 5,00,000. The rate of return in such business is 12%. Partner's are paid Rs. 12,000 for remuneration. Calculate the value of goodwill by capitalization method of super profit.
Explain any four characteristics of a company.
Yas Limited company issued 40,000 shares of Rs. 10 each to the public.. Payable as Rs. 4 on application, Rs. 3 on allotment and the balance on call. All the amounts were received. Pass the journal entries in the books of the company.
Write any four differences between share and debenture.
XYZ Industries Ltd. issued 2,000, 10% debentures of Rs. 100 each, at a premium of Rs. 10 per debenture payable as follows:
Explain the various methods of redemption of debentures.
Pooja, a shareholder, failed to pay the money for second and final call of Rs. 20 on 1,000 shares issued to him at Rs. 120 (face value of Rs. 100 per share). His shares were forfeited after the second and final call. Give the necessary journal entry for forfeiture of the shares.
State the objectives of financial statements. (any four)
Write the limitations of financial statements. (any four)
Distinguish between receipt any payment A/c and income and expenditure A/c.. (any five)
From the Receipt and Payment Account given below, prepare the Income and Expenditure A/c of Clean Delhi Club for the year ended 31st March, 2018
How to calculate the amount payable to retired partner ?
Given below is the balance sheet of A and B, who are carrying on partnership business as on 31st March, 2017. A and B share profits in the ratio 2:1.
Explain in brief the main categories in which the share capital of a company is divided.
Kumar Limited purchased assets of Rs. 6,30,000 from Bhanu Oil Ltd. Kumar Limited issued equity shares of Rs. 100 each fully paid up. What journal entries will be made if the shares are issued (i) at par and (ii) at premium 20%.
Calculate liquidity ratio from the following informations : Current liabilities = Rs. 50,000, Current assets = Rs. 80,000
Current ratio is 3.5:1. Working capital is Rs. 90,000. Calculate the amount of current assets and current liabilities.
What are the items included in cash flow from operating activities and investing activities ?
Write five examples of cash in flow and cash out flow.
Choose the correct option: Income and Expenditure Account reveals - (A) Gross Profit (B) Net Profit (C) Surplus or Deficiency
Fill in the blank : (i) Unclaimed dividend is shown on the side _____. (ii) Ratio Analysis is a _______ expression of relationship
Match the columns : (1) First Payment after Dissolution - (a) Partner's Loan
Answer in one word / sentence : (i) Income and Expenditure A/c is prepared with the help of - (ii) In which heading of Profit &
Write True / False : (i) It is not necessary to show the Authorised Capital in Balance Sheet of a Company.
Write example of Non-Trading Organisations. (any four)
What is meant by Receipt and Payment Account ?
Write the definition of Partnership according to Partnership Act, 1932.
What is meant by Profit & Loss Appropriation Account?
Write any two characteristics of Goodwill.
What are the main rights acquired by a new partner ?
What is meant by expulsion of a Partner ?
What is meant by Gaining Ratio ?
What is meant by Dissolution of a Partnership ?
Which accounts are opened on the dissolution of a firin?
Write any two characteristics of a Company.
What is meant by Calls in Advance ?
Write any two characteristics of Equity Shares.
Write the effect of forfeiture of shares on Shareholder.
Write any two characteristics of debentures.
What is meant by Irredeemable debenture ?
Write any two limitations of Financial Statement.
What is meant by Comparative Financial Statement ?
What is meant by Current Ratio ?
What is meant by Cash Flow Statement ?
Write the characteristics of Income and Expenditure accounts.
From the following informations prepare Receipt and Payment Account of D.B. Club for the year ending 31 Dec., 2018.
Under what circumstances can a partner retire from a partnership firm ?
Write the differences between Revaluation Account and Realisation Account. (any three)
Write the types of Preference Shares.
Mahajan Ltd. issued 30,000 equity shares of Rs. 10 each to the public. The whole amount was received in a lumpsum. Pass
Write the essential qualities of a good Financial Statement. (any three)
Write the objectives of Financial Statement Analysis. (any three)
State the rules which are applicable in the absence of partnership deed. (any four)
Kumud, Sumud and Kirti started partnership in the ratio of 4:3:3 respectively on 1-4-2016. Kumud personally guaranteed that
Calculate the value of Goodwill at three years purchase of an average profit of five years. Profit and Loss for last five years are
Write any four purposes of admission of a new partner in the firm.
Write the procedure of Forfeiture of shares.
Give the journal entries of issue of shares.
Calculate Current Ratio of the following :
Write the importance of Cash Flow Statement.