Choose the correct answers : (i) How many princely states were there at the time of freedom of India ?
Fill in the blanks : (i) ____ take part in non alignment conference.
Write the answers in one sentence each : (i) Which type of member is India in World Bank ?
Write True/False : (i) Non-alignment follows the race of weapons.
Match the correct pairs : (i) B. N. Rau
What is Azad Kashmir ?
Which princely States, created: problems by taking integration ?
Which are two important problems of refugees ?
When did India send its first military troop to Kashmir ?
Who was Constitution advisor ?
Who is called 'Key' of Constitution ?
Write any two aims of European Union.
What is means of Non-alignment ?
Write any two provisions of Shimla Agreement.
Where is situated Kachhatibu Tapu ?
Write the name of members for making Constitution committee.
Write the three needs for making Constitution.
Write any three fundamental duties of citizens.
Write any three fundamental rights of citizens.
Write any three aims of United Nations.
Write any three aims of Economic and Social Council of United Nations.
What are the main problems of hindrances in the way of disarmament ?
Write the full name of “UNESCO” and give two objectives of it.
Write the full name of "NITI Ayog” and give its three functions.
Write the M.P. Backward Class Commissions functions.
Write four causes of rise regionalism in India.
Write four reasons of economic' inequality.
Write the functions of National Commission for Women.
Write four benefits obtained from forest.
Write the determining factors of Indian Foreign Policy.
Write reasons for the adoption of Non-alignment policy by India.
Write the full name of “SAARC” and give its three objectives.
Write four functions of International Monetary Fund.
Write any four points of Indo-U.S. Non-Military Nuclear Agreement.
Write four main provisions of Tashkent Agreement.
Write the four features of modernization.
Write four features of liberalization.
Discuss formation and recommendations of State Reorganization Commission.
What was role of United Nations in the way of solving of Kashmir problem ?
Write the five objectives of Five Year Plans.
Write the five objectives of planning.
What is the meaning of Regionalism ? Write stopping of measures for the causes of rise it.
What is meant by Naxalism and write the causes of its origin.
Write the measures to make the consumer protection more effective.
Write five characteristics of co-operative organization/movement.
Describe briefly the principles of Indian Foreign Policy.
What is meant by Detente ? Write factors accountable for emergence of Detente ?
Choose the correct option: The Cuban Missile crisis occurred - (A) 1962 (B) 1967 (C) 1968 (D) 1965
Fill in the blanks: (A) Open door policy was adopted by _______. (B) The Eighteenth "SAARC" summit was held in
Match the correct pairs : (i) Limited Nuclear Test Treaty (A) AASU
Write the answer in one sentence each : (A) Which community has a major role in the ethnic conflict of Sri Lanka?
Write True / False : (A) Cold War is a state of tension between Nations. (B) The Soviet Union disintegrated in 1990
What are causes for threat to world peace ?
What is meant by merely mediators ?
Write the meaning of Bi-polarity.
Write the meaning of Shock therapy
Write the meaning of dominance
Write the meaning of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
Write the name of SAARC member countries
Write about Treaty between India and Nepal.
What are the diseases which spread rapidly through migration business and tourism ?
What are B.W.C. and C.W.C. ?
Write about meaning of globalization
What is meant by W.S.F. ? Write.
How many seats did the Congress win in the first general election of 1952.
Which political party got the maximum number of seats in the 1957 Kerala State Assembly elections
What does Syndicate mean ? Write
What is defection ? Write:
When the Right to Information Act come into force ?
Write the full name of N.F.F. What was Operation Blue Star ? Write.
Which states in North-East India are known as seven sisters ? Write.
What was Soviet System ? Write.
Write about any three result of Shock therapy.
Write about any three purpose of Asean Vision 2020.
Which importance of European Union make its special regional organization ?
What is Green Revolution ? Write.
What is "Bombay Plan" ? Write.
What is Naxalite movement ? Write.
What are the result of Shah Commission Inquiry Forum appointed during Emergency? Write.
Why did the superpowers have military alliances with smaller countries ?
Write about Cuba Missile crisis.
Write about four main aim of United Nations.
Write about functions of World Health Organization.
Write about Manipur Riyasat held in Indian Nation.
What was the task of the State Reorganization Commission ? What is its most salient recommendation ?
Write about any four main principles of Indian Foreign Policy.
Write any three reasons for adopting Non-aligned policy by India.
Choose the correct answer: When did Nehru-Liaquat Agreement was made? (A) 1949 (B) 1952 (C) 1948 (D) 1950
Fill in the blanks : (i) Drafting Committee chairman was _______ (ii) Establishment year of Andhra Pradesh is _______
Write the answer in one sentence each : (i) In Constitution policy director element we were taken from which country? (ii) Who was the chairman of the State
Write true / false : (i) Policy Commission was setup in 2016. (ii) Separatism has weakened the nation. (iii) Efforts towords female empowerment in India are
Match the correct pairs : (i) Panchsheel agreement - (A) 1945
Tell any two mistakes made by India in the context of Kashmir episode.
Write any two recommendations of Dar Commission,
Write two things on the Cabinet Mission plan.
Write two fundamental rights.
Write two objectives of SAARC.
Write two identities of the non-aligned nations,
Tashkand Agreement wad done between which two nations Write any two terms in the Tashkand agreement.
Write two reasons for the Indo-Srilanka conflict
Write two reasons for partition of India,
Why Sardar Patel is called the Bismark of India ?
Write any three characteristics of Constitution.
Why Indian Constitution called borrowed leag?
What is the meaning of absolute dominant, socialist and s described in the Constitution ?
Write three characteristics of constitution building.
Write three objectives of United Nations.
Write three basic principles of the United Nations.
Write three types of disarmament.
Write the names of six Organs of UN.
Write characteristics of Backward Classes.
Write the meaning of planning and its four objectives.
Explain the regional imbalances and write their four reasons.
Write four suggestions on controlling languagism.
Explain the need for consumer protection and write four steps to make it effective.
Write any four steps for women empowerment.
Write four Impact of stress and detente on international relation
Write four characteristics of Non-Aligned policy.
Write functions of World Bank,
Write full form of ASEAN and its four purposes.
Write four conditions for border security cooperation agreement of 2013 between China and India.
P.L. 480 Agreement took place between which countries and write their terms.
Write the Eight objectives of liberalization,
Write four features of modernization.
Write the arguments given by India and Pakistan on the Kashmir dispute.
Write formation of State Reorganization Commission and five recommendations.
Write five schemes and write on the Constitution and development of Schedule Caste and Tribal Commission.
Write formation of Kaka Kalelkar Commission and its five recommendations.
Explain the Economic Inequality and write four reasons.
Explain the five causes of the rise of Regionalism.
What do you understand by the environment ? Write five types of environmental pollution,
Write meaning of co-operation and write five reasons of its failure.
Write the five influences on the Cold War on International relations,
Write in brief four characteristics of Indian foreign policy.
Choose the correct answer - (i) When did the agreement related to merger of Kashmir into India was signed - (a) 22 October 1948
Fill in the blanks - (i) India has always opposed Imperalism and ______. (ii) International Monetary Fund was established in ______.
Write answer in one sentence - (i) What is the full form of PWG? (ii) When was ASEAN established? (iii) When was the Tashkent Pact signed?
Identify True/False statement. (i) Naxalites believe in Mao Philosophy. (ii) The first summit conference of "SAARC" was organised in the year 1985.
Match the correct pairs. (i) B. N. Rau - (a) Kathmandu
Write any two consequences of Refugee problem.
Mention any two reasons responsible for the partition of India.
What were the main recommendations of Dar Commission.
When was Sikkim formed as a separate state?
What is Creamy layer?
Why Indian Constitution is called the bag of debt?
When and where did the 14th Non-aligned summit hold?
Write the full form of ASEAN and give the Number of its member countries.
Where is Kacchativu located?
What was Gujral Doctrine?
Discuss on the need of making constitution.
Write any three features of Cabinet Mission Plan.
Mention about the sources of Indian Constitution.
Write the names of members of Drafting Committee.
Write the objectives of United Nations.
What are the main six organs of United Nations?
What is the main function of the Trusteeship Council.
Explain the Jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.
Explain the objectives of planning.
Explain about the functions of National Development Council:
Explain the Effects of Regional Imbalance.
Give the suggestions to Curb Linguism.
Explain various forms of feminism.
What are the causes of Environmental Pollution? -
Write the main symptoms of Non-Aligned policy.
Write any four reasons as to why India adopted the policy of Non-alignment.
Throw light on the importance of SAARC.
Write the functions of the World Bank.
Give four reasons of tension between India and Bangladesh.
Describe the relationship between India and Russia.
Write the features of modernization.
What is the objectives of economic liberalization.
Write any five features of Indian foreign policy.
Explain in detail the causes of the Cold War.
Describe the steps taken for the women enforcement in India.
Write the characteristics of co-operative movement.
Give five measures to eliminate the Illiteracy in India.
Write a short note on measures to curb regionalism.
Explain the recommendations made by Kaka Kalelkar Commission.
Write the main recommendations of the Mandal Commission.
Explain the main recommendations of State Re-organization Commission.
Write a short essay on Kashmir problem.
Choose and write the correct option: When did The Bolshevik Revolution happen ? (i) 1915 (ii) 1950 (iii) 1945
Fill in the blanks: (A) The _____ is the most important organ of the U.N. (B) State Reorganization Commission
Match the correct pairs: (A) Nobel Peace Prize to European Union - (i) 1972 (B) Shimla Agreement - (ii) 1968
Write the answer in one sentence each : (A) How many stars are in the flag of The European Union? (B)
Write True / False : (A) The fall of the Berlin Wall was the end of the cold war. (B) India signed the Kyoto
Write the meaning of Shock Therapy
Who is last President of Soviet Union?
How many classes of Human Right?
Write the meaning of Traditional Notions of Security.
What is Natural Resources ?
What is Global Warming ?
What is Globalization ?
Write any two reasons of Globalization.
When was the Planning Commission established in India?
Write about any two features of the First Five Year Plan.
What is Shimla Agreement ?
Write the names of any four neighboring countries of India.
What is two challenges did the country face during Lal Bahadur Shastri as the Prime Minister?
What do you mean Syndicate ? Write.
What is the meaning of the Naxalite Movement ?
What is meant by Press Censorship ?
What is the Anandpur Sahib Resolution?
Which region of India is known as Seven Sisters ?
What do meant by Alliance Politics?
Write any two recommend of Mandal Commission.
Write three consequences of disintegration of U.S.S.R.
Write the reasons of disintegrate of Soviet Union.
Write three reasons for the growth of Chinese Economy.
Write any three objectives of the ASEAN Vision 20202.
Write the three challenges of Nation Building.
What was the Instrument of Accession ?
Write three consequences of Emergency.
Write any three lessons of the Emergency.
Write about the aim of SAARC Organization.
Write four features of South Asia.
Write four functions of International Organization,
Write about any four functions of United Nations.
Write any four reasons for the differences of options of the India and China.
Write about features of Indias Non-aligned Policy.
Explain the Sikkims Merger.
Write any four main regional aspirations of the North-East States.